<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Companion: Preparation for Exam PL-300</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter"><div class="ChapterContextInformation"><div class="ContextInformation" id="b978-1-4842-9013-2_15"><div class="ChapterCopyright">© The Author(s), under exclusive license to APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023</div><span class="ContextInformationAuthorEditorNames">J. Jolly</span><span class="ContextInformationBookTitles"><span class="BookTitle">Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Companion</span></span><span class="ContextInformationSeries"><span class="SeriesTitle" lang="en">Certification Study Companion Series</span></span><span class="ChapterDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4842-9013-2_15">https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4842-9013-2_15</a></span></div></div><!--Begin Abstract--><div class="MainTitleSection"><h1 class="ChapterTitle" lang="en">15. Where Do You Go from Here?</h1></div><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="AuthorNames"><span class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Jessica Jolly</span><sup><a href="#Aff11">1</a> <span class="ContactIcon"> </span></sup></span></div><div class="Affiliations"><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff11"><span class="AffiliationNumber">(1)</span><div class="AffiliationText">Evanston, IL, USA</div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></div></div><!--End Abstract--><div class="Fulltext"><p class="Para" id="Par2">Congratulations! If you have made it this far in the book, my hope is that you are ready to sit the PL-300 exam. But remember what I said in the first chapter? I want you to be ready to <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">work</em> with Power BI. How can you continue your growth?</p><div class="Para" id="Par3">The good news is that there are a lot of resources available to you, many of them free. The bad news? There are <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">a lot</em> of resources available, but you have to discover them. In this chapter I am going to provide you with my favorite resources. Please note that<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par4">I am in no way affiliated with any of these resources.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par5">This could never be a comprehensive list of resources. Any omissions are either unintentional or because I am unaware of them.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec1"><h2 class="Heading">YouTube</h2><p class="Para" id="Par6">Let’s start with YouTube, which is where the lion’s share of the resources is.</p><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec2"><h3 class="Heading">Guy in a Cube</h3><p class="Para" id="Par7">This is the channel where I started my learning journey. Adam Saxton and Patrick LeBlanc (who both work for Microsoft) have been creating videos since 2017, so the library of <span id="ITerm1">videos</span> is extensive. One of the things I love about their channel is that their content runs the gamut from beginner to complex topics. No matter the stage you are in, you will find helpful, relevant material on this channel.</p><p class="Para" id="Par8"><span id="ITerm2">Guy in a Cube (GIAC)</span><span id="ITerm3"></span> provides a bonus offering: they hold a one-hour live session most Saturdays at 9:30 a.m. Eastern, which is open to anyone. Attendees are from all over the world, and, if you attend regularly, you will get to know some Power BI heavy hitters by name. Adam and Patrick take questions from participants and answer them. If you choose to join as a member, you can pre-submit questions.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec3"><h3 class="Heading">Havens Consulting (Reid Havens)</h3><p class="Para" id="Par9">I love this channel because <span id="ITerm4">Reid</span><span id="ITerm5"></span> alternates between in-depth interviews with Power BI luminaries and practical videos. Reid has a design background, and many of his videos focus on enhancing both the appearance and functionality of your report. Do you have questions about buttons, bookmarks, and visualizations? Reid’s channel is a must-watch. You can also support Reid’s channel by becoming a member.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec4"><h3 class="Heading">Ruth Curbal</h3><p class="Para" id="Par10">Ruth’s <span id="ITerm6">channel</span> is wonderful because she produces videos that cover the entire Power BI spectrum. You will find videos on DAX, the Power Query Editor, and the Service. Her style is very approachable and easy to follow. She also has fun contests and events, such as the “25 Days of DAX,” which she ran in December 2021. You can’t go wrong following Ruth’s channel.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec5"><h3 class="Heading">RADACAD</h3><p class="Para" id="Par11"><span id="ITerm7">Reza Rad</span><span id="ITerm8"></span> is Power BI royalty in the Power BI community. In addition to the extensive content he produces, he also runs conferences that are affordable and well worth your time and money.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec6"><h3 class="Heading">SQLBI</h3><p class="Para" id="Par12">No list of YouTube <span id="ITerm9">channels</span><span id="ITerm10"></span> (or blogs) would be complete without talking about SQLBI, run by Marco Russo and Alberto Ferrrari (colloquially known as “the Italians” in the Power BI community). There are so many good resources I don’t quite know where to begin.</p><div class="Para" id="Par13">They have three different types of content:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par14">They regularly post videos about <span id="ITerm11">DAX functions</span> and concepts. Some of these videos are appropriate for beginners, and some are much more advanced. Every video is accompanied by a blog post on SQLBI.com.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par15">They have an <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Unplugged</em> <span id="ITerm12">series</span>. In these videos they tackle a topic or challenge, but they do not edit the resulting video. I love these videos because you can follow their reasoning as they work on solving the problem. Many times, watching them solve a problem has enlightened me more than seeing the result.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par16">Finally, they just launched a <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Whiteboard</em> <span id="ITerm13">series</span><span id="ITerm14"></span><span id="ITerm15"></span>, which they are basing on the demonstrations they perform in class. I have attended their live DAX class and can attest to the value of seeing a concept explained using diagramming on a whiteboard.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec7"><h3 class="Heading">Chris Wagner</h3><p class="Para" id="Par17"><span id="ITerm16">Chris Wagner’s</span> YouTube channel is my go-to when I want to tackle some more technical concepts. He does a great job of explaining difficult concepts clearly. He has a wealth of knowledge and experience in implementing, maintaining, and governing Power BI within a large enterprise. Not to mention he has a great sense of fun!</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec8"><h3 class="Heading">Two Alex</h3><p class="Para" id="Par18">For a while, Alex <span id="ITerm17">Powers</span> and Alex Dupler ran a Saturday morning live stream right after Guy in a Cube. I loved this channel because they would go deep into some technical concepts. While there aren’t a lot of videos on this channel, every one of them is worth watching.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec9"><h3 class="Heading">Explicit Measures</h3><p class="Para" id="Par19">Mike Carlo, Tommy <span id="ITerm18">Puglia</span>, and Seth Bauer host a twice-weekly podcast called “Explicit Measures.” I love this podcast because they cover real-world topics in a very approachable way. I can’t recommend them enough!</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec10"><h2 class="Heading">Blogs</h2><p class="Para" id="Par20">There are so many good blogs out there it is very hard to confine myself to just a few.</p><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec11"><h3 class="Heading">SQLBI</h3><p class="Para" id="Par21">As I <span id="ITerm19">mentioned</span> earlier, Marco Russo and Alberto Ferrari post articles that accompany the videos they post on YouTube. I am someone who learns by reading, so having an article to read really helps me solidify a concept. I often will watch the YouTube video, then read the article, and then rewatch the video.</p><p class="Para" id="Par22">I would mislead you if I said that their posts are for beginners, but it is never too early to expose yourself to DAX concepts. You will be amazed by how much you retain. And, over time, it all begins to “click.”</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec12"><h3 class="Heading">Chris Webb</h3><p class="Para" id="Par23">Chris’ <span id="ITerm20">blog</span> focuses on the Power Query Editor. I love it because he often delves into complex topics that I don’t even know how to find through a search. Often his topics are above my head, but that gives me the motivation to dig deeper and learn more.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec13"><h3 class="Heading">Ben Gribaudo</h3><p class="Para" id="Par24">Are the Power <span id="ITerm21">Query</span> Editor and the M language “black boxes” to you? I just took a class with Ben (see “Paid Training” in the following) because I had lots of questions about both. The class was very enlightening. But you can benefit from Ben’s knowledge at no cost by reading his blog. He has a <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Power Query Editor Primer</em> series that is a great place to start. He also regularly blogs about much more complex topics. Even if some of them are too complex for me, they inspire me to dig deeper.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec14"><h3 class="Heading">Paul Turley</h3><p class="Para" id="Par25"><span id="ITerm22">Paul Turley</span> wrote one of the best blog series I have ever read: <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Doing Power BI the Right Way</em>. If you don’t explore any of the other blogs I mention, be sure to read this series. I recently met up with Paul, and, at the time of this writing, he is actively thinking about new topics for his blog page—I can’t wait for his new content to drop.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec15"><h2 class="Heading">Books</h2><p class="Para" id="Par26">Sometimes it seems to me that no one uses <span id="ITerm23">books</span> for learning anymore, but I love them. (Hopefully this book will be the exception to this trend!) There are several books that I rely on heavily.</p><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec16"><h3 class="Heading"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">The Definitive Guide to DAX</em> by Marco Russo and Alberto Ferrari</h3><p class="Para" id="Par27">This <span id="ITerm24">book</span> is a “must” for anyone who wants to be good at DAX. I don’t know a Power BI rockstar who doesn’t own this book.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec17"><h3 class="Heading"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Collect, Combine, and Transform Data Using Power Query in Excel and Power BI</em> by Gil Raviv</h3><p class="Para" id="Par28">This is the book I used to “ramp up” my knowledge of the Power Query Editor. It covers the basics and then moves to crucial <span id="ITerm25">concepts</span>, such as future-proofing queries. You may not be ready to put everything in this book into practice, but being aware of the concepts he explores is critical.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec18"><h3 class="Heading"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Master Your Data with Power Query in Excel and Power BI</em> by Ken Puls and Miguel Escobar</h3><p class="Para" id="Par29">This is a great <span id="ITerm26">companion</span> text to Gil Raviv’s book. It focuses on mechanics and techniques and is an invaluable reference.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec19"><h3 class="Heading"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Super Charge Power BI</em> by Matt Allington</h3><p class="Para" id="Par30">If you are just starting to learn DAX, Matt Allington’s book is a perfect place to start. He doesn’t assume any prior knowledge and includes lots of exercises.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec20"><h3 class="Heading"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Star Schema</em> by Chris Adamson</h3><p class="Para" id="Par31">Eventually, you will want to know more about data modeling generally and star schemas specifically. This is a great book to <span id="ITerm27">increase</span> your understanding of what a star schema is and how to build a good one.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec21"><h2 class="Heading">Paid Training</h2><p class="Para" id="Par32">Once you are beyond the basics, there are several <span id="ITerm28">paid training courses</span> that I can highly recommend.</p><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec22"><h3 class="Heading">Mastering DAX with Marco Russo and Alberto Ferrari</h3><p class="Para" id="Par33">This is a three-day in person class that is excellent. Be warned—it isn’t for beginners.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec23"><h3 class="Heading">Power Query Editor and M with Ben Gribaudo</h3><p class="Para" id="Par34">This is a 12-hour class <span id="ITerm29">split</span> over three days. Take this class when you want to understand why and how the Power Query Editor does what it does.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec24"><h3 class="Heading">Video Training Courses by SQLBI</h3><p class="Para" id="Par35">Alberto Ferrari and Marco Russo have produced numerous video courses on a variety of subjects. The amount of content they pack into each course is incredible. You have several years to make your way through the content (and you will need that time!), and you can re-up your access when the initial period expires.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec25"><h2 class="Heading">User Groups</h2><div class="Para" id="Par36">The pandemic was terrible on many levels. One of the few benefits to come from it is the move to online meetings by most user <span id="ITerm30">groups</span>. You can now attend a user group anywhere in the world from the comfort of your chair. Even better, most user groups record their events and make them accessible on YouTube. Some of my favorites are<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par37">Stuttgart</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par38">Romania</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par39">London</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par40">Azerbaijan/Baku</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par41">But this is by no means an <span id="ITerm31">inclusive</span> list. You should explore and find your favorites.</p></section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec26"><h2 class="Heading">Conferences</h2><p class="Para" id="Par42">At the time I am writing this, <span id="ITerm32">conferences</span> are back. There are a lot of different options, but they vary from year to year. Twitter is a great place to hear about them. The biggest one, “Ignite” hosted by Microsoft, has not yet returned in person but is available online. Most conferences have a virtual option now.</p><p class="Para" id="Par43">I love going to <span id="ITerm33">conferences</span> because I get to meet Power BI folks I only talked to virtually. I also love sessions that are a stretch for me. I always make sure that I attend at least two to three of these sessions.</p><div class="FormalPara FormalParaRenderingStyle1 ParaTypeImportant" id="FPar1"><div class="Heading">Tip</div><p class="Para FirstParaInFormalPara" id="Par44">Don’t be afraid to introduce yourself to the speaker. Most of us love to meet new people, and we welcome your questions. We want to see others succeed—we wouldn’t be spending our time and money speaking if we didn’t!</p></div></section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec27"><h2 class="Heading">Social Media</h2><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec28"><h3 class="Heading">Twitter</h3><p class="Para" id="Par45">By far and away, <span id="ITerm34">Twitter</span><span id="ITerm35"></span> is the platform preferred by Power BI folks. Do you have a question? Do you have an insight or an opinion? Twitter is the place to post. Some good hashtags to follow are #PowerBI, #PowerQueryEditor, and #PowerBIHelp.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec29"><h3 class="Heading">Reddit</h3><p class="Para" id="Par46">There is an active Power BI <span id="ITerm36">subreddit</span><span id="ITerm37"></span> where you can post questions and get help. There are some heavy hitters in that group.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec30"><h3 class="Heading">LinkedIn</h3><p class="Para" id="Par47">It is a good idea to <span id="ITerm38">expand</span><span id="ITerm39"></span> your network with Power BI professionals on LinkedIn. You can start by connecting with me at <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="http://www.linkedin.com/in/jessicabjolly/"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">www.linkedin.com/in/jessicabjolly/</span></span></a></span>. The Power BI community is welcoming and generous. As you grow your career, you will find plenty of people who want to help you succeed.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec31"><h2 class="Heading">External Tools</h2><p class="Para" id="Par48">Once you have gained a modicum of skills in Power BI, you will want to explore some of the external tools that will make your job easier. I have listed a few of these tools in the following, but you can find a complete list at <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="http://www.sqlbi.com/tools/"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">www.sqlbi.com/tools/</span></span></a></span>. Once you have downloaded the program, the next time you open the Power BI Desktop, a new tab will appear called <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">External Tools</span>.</p><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec32"><h3 class="Heading">DAX Studio</h3><p class="Para" id="Par49"><span id="ITerm40">DAX Studio</span><span id="ITerm41"></span> enables you to write and test your DAX. You can connect it directly to your model and then evaluate different permutations of particular DAX expressions. In several places in this book, I mentioned that there are always ways to improve your DAX performance. DAX Studio helps you do this because you can measure how long a DAX expression takes to evaluate and analyze what components are taking the longest. Once you have fine-tuned the expression, you can then copy it back into the Power BI Desktop. DAX Studio is free, which is incredible given the value it adds to the development experience. And there is a bonus: Marco and Alberto have posted a free video sequence explaining how to use DAX Studio on their You Tube channel and on their website.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec33"><h3 class="Heading">Bravo</h3><p class="Para" id="Par50"><span id="ITerm42">Bravo</span><span id="ITerm43"></span> is a new tool (March of 2022) that SQLBI has introduced. It can analyze your model, format your DAX, and create a date table for you. I have not had a chance to play with it, but any tool created by SQLBI is well worth exploring.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec34"><h3 class="Heading">Tabular Editor</h3><p class="Para" id="Par51"><span id="ITerm44">Building</span><span id="ITerm45"></span> a data model is a nontrivial exercise. While you can do this in the Power BI Desktop, most developers are now using Tabular Editor, a tool developed by Daniel Otykier. There are two versions of Tabular Editor: the community version, which is free, and the paid version, which is approximately 350 USD/year. Please be sure to check the website (<span class="ExternalRef"><a href="https://tabulareditor.com/"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">https://tabulareditor.com/</span></span></a></span>) for exact pricing.</p><p class="Para" id="Par52">Both versions allow you to perform modeling steps more conveniently than in the Power BI Desktop. Additionally, Tabular Editor supports some features that the Power BI Desktop does not. With a free community version available, you can afford to check it out!</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec35"><h3 class="Heading">Other Tools</h3><p class="Para" id="Par53">The SQLBI website maintains a comprehensive list of all the external tools available for <span id="ITerm46">Power BI developers</span> (<span class="ExternalRef"><a href="http://www.sqlbi.com/tools/"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">www.sqlbi.com/tools/</span></span></a></span>). Be sure to check out the list as there are many other cool tools to investigate.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec36"><h2 class="Heading">Conclusion</h2><p class="Para" id="Par54">I have had a lot of fun writing this book. It has cemented some of my knowledge of topics that were a little “fuzzy,” and it has caused me to think deeply about what someone <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">needs</em> to know to get started in Power BI. I wanted to give you an in-depth guide to the topics you will need to study for the PL-300, but I also wanted to get you started on the road to becoming a Power BI “ninja.” I hope that I have accomplished both goals. Most importantly, I hope that this book helps you learn to love Power BI as much as I do!</p></section>
</div></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>