<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Companion: Preparation for Exam PL-300</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter"><div class="ChapterContextInformation"><div class="ContextInformation" id="b978-1-4842-9013-2_2"><div class="ChapterCopyright">© The Author(s), under exclusive license to APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023</div><span class="ContextInformationAuthorEditorNames">J. Jolly</span><span class="ContextInformationBookTitles"><span class="BookTitle">Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Companion</span></span><span class="ContextInformationSeries"><span class="SeriesTitle" lang="en">Certification Study Companion Series</span></span><span class="ChapterDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4842-9013-2_2">https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4842-9013-2_2</a></span></div></div><!--Begin Abstract--><div class="MainTitleSection"><h1 class="ChapterTitle" lang="en">2. PL-300 Coverage</h1></div><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="AuthorNames"><span class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Jessica Jolly</span><sup><a href="#Aff11">1</a> <span class="ContactIcon"> </span></sup></span></div><div class="Affiliations"><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff11"><span class="AffiliationNumber">(1)</span><div class="AffiliationText">Evanston, IL, USA</div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></div></div><!--End Abstract--><div class="Fulltext"><p class="Para" id="Par2">As I mentioned in Chapter <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="532800_1_En_1_Chapter.xhtml"><span class="RefSource">1</span></a></span>, I consider the PL-300 exam a “broad-spectrum” exam. That means that the domains covered are comprehensive: from the Power Query Editor (PQE) to the Power BI Desktop and then the Power BI Service. Before we dive into each of these domains in turn (in subsequent chapters), I would like to provide an overview of the Power BI ecosystem. I start all my training classes with this overview, and invariably there are elements that surprise students.</p><div class="FormalPara FormalParaRenderingStyle1 ParaTypeImportant" id="FPar1"><div class="Heading">A Note on Terminology</div><p class="Para FirstParaInFormalPara" id="Par3">Power BI has a deep heritage in database technology. It should therefore come as no surprise that there is a lot of database terminology. Throughout this book, I will take pains to identify and explain terms that you will encounter while studying for this exam.</p></div><section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec1"><h2 class="Heading">The Tools</h2><p class="Para" id="Par4">There are three separate tool sets that are used in Power BI: the Power Query Editor, the Power BI Desktop, and the Power BI Service. You will need to be familiar with each of these tools and what their individual roles are in the product.</p><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec2"><h3 class="Heading">Power BI Desktop</h3><p class="Para" id="Par5">The Power BI <span id="ITerm1">Desktop</span> (hereafter called “<span id="ITerm2">Desktop</span>”) is the client where you will develop your data model and create reports. It is a free tool, which can be downloaded from the Microsoft Store. (See below for more information on downloading the Desktop.) You can use the Power BI Desktop without logging into the Power BI Service, but if you want to publish a report, you need to sign in.</p><div class="FormalPara FormalParaRenderingStyle1 ParaTypeImportant" id="FPar2"><div class="Heading">Tip</div><p class="Para FirstParaInFormalPara" id="Par6">If you have Office 365 through your employer, your Power BI license will probably be connected to those credentials. If you are learning Power BI proactively and do not have employer-provided credentials (yet), you can sign up for a free Power BI license. However, to do so you must use a “business” domain. For example, you cannot sign up for a Power BI license using a Gmail email account.</p></div><p class="Para" id="Par7">The Power BI Desktop is a resource <span id="ITerm3">glutton</span>; Microsoft recommends having a machine with at least 8 GB of RAM. If you can, get a “beefier” machine, with at least 16 GB of RAM, preferably 32 GB. With less than 16 GB of RAM, you may struggle with the responsiveness of the Desktop. <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Additionally, the Power BI Desktop does not have a Mac version.</em> If you are planning to use an Apple computer, you will need to install a Windows virtual desktop, such as Parallels.</p><p class="Para" id="Par8"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">The Desktop is a</em> <span id="ITerm4"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">development environment</em></span>. Many of us come to Power BI through Excel, and we don’t consider ourselves “developers.” But you need to adopt a developer mindset when using the Desktop to develop your data model and your reports. There will be some features and functionality that won’t be activated until the report is published. You also do not want to share your reports (in a PBIX file) directly with another user. Yes, they <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">can</em> open your report in the Desktop, but there will be things that won’t work properly or as designed until you publish the report into the Power BI Service.</p><section class="Section3 RenderAsSection3" id="Sec3"><h4 class="Heading">Desktop Updates</h4><p class="Para" id="Par9">The Power BI team at Microsoft delivers <span id="ITerm5">updates</span><span id="ITerm6"></span> to the Power BI Desktop ten times a year. The easiest way to ensure that you have the latest Power BI Desktop is to download the application from the <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/"><span class="RefSource">Microsoft Store</span></a></span>. (Scroll down to the bottom of the web page to find the download button.) If your organization does not allow you to download from the MS Store, you can download the Desktop application directly from <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/"><span class="RefSource">here</span></a></span>. If you cannot download from the MS Store, you will need to <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">manually update</em> the Power BI Desktop.</p></section>
<section class="Section3 RenderAsSection3" id="Sec4"><h4 class="Heading">Reports and Dashboards</h4><p class="Para" id="Par10">When I teach, I often hear students use the terms <span id="ITerm7"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">report</em></span><span id="ITerm8"></span> and <span id="ITerm9"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">dashboard</em></span><span id="ITerm10"></span> interchangeably. <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Reports and dashboards are two different products</em>, and as I will be using these terms throughout this book, I want to define them here.</p><p class="Para" id="Par11">A <span id="ITerm11"><strong class="EmphasisTypeBold ">report</strong></span><span id="ITerm12"></span> is a single-page or multi-page document with one or more visuals on each page. Reports are usually created in the Power BI Desktop but <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">can</em> be created in the Power BI Service. A report is <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">always</em> underpinned by a data model. A report typically covers a particular subject but doesn’t have to.</p><p class="Para" id="Par12">A <span id="ITerm13"><strong class="EmphasisTypeBold ">dashboard</strong></span><span id="ITerm14"></span> is a single-page document with one or more visuals taken from one or more reports. Dashboards can <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">only</em> be created in the Power BI Service. Visuals that are “pinned” to a dashboard do not interact with each other as they do on a report. (There is one exception to this rule, which we will cover in a later chapter.) Dashboards can have streaming content, such as IoT data, whereas reports cannot.</p><p class="Para" id="Par13"><strong class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Report or dashboard?</strong> The favorite answer in the Power BI community is “It depends” because it often does. If the report consumers need to actively filter the visuals, a report is probably the best choice. On a dashboard, when a visual tile is selected, the reader is directed back to the original report. If you are creating something to provide information at a glance, a dashboard may be a better option than a report. I think of a dashboard as something that can be displayed on a big monitor hanging in the lobby, cafeteria, or factory floor. People look at the monitor to see updated information, but don’t expect to interact with that information.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec5"><h3 class="Heading">Power Query Editor</h3><p class="Para" id="Par14">The <span id="ITerm15">Power Query Editor (PQE)</span><span id="ITerm16"></span> tool is what you use to extract, transform, and load your data.</p><p class="Para ParaTypeImportant" id="Par15"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">E</em>xtract, <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">T</em>ransform, <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">L</em>oad <span id="ITerm17">(ETL)</span> describes the process in which you will connect to a data source, acquire the data you want (Extract), perform the changes you need to make (Transform), and then apply the changes you have specified to the selected data and import it into the Power BI Desktop (Load).</p><p class="Para" id="Par16">The Power Query Editor is a tool that is available through the Power BI Desktop. It is also available through Excel 2016 (or later) and from the Power BI Service. Any techniques and skills you use in the Power Query Editor within the Power BI Desktop you can also use in the Power Query Editor in Excel or in the Service. Just a quick note, new features are released to the Power Query Editor in this order: PQE Service, PQE Desktop, and, finally, PQE <span id="ITerm18">Excel</span><span id="ITerm19"></span>. There may be features that you use in the PQE Service or in the PQE Desktop that you won’t see in PQE Excel.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec6"><h3 class="Heading">The Power BI Service</h3><div class="Para" id="Par17">If you shouldn’t send PBIX files to other users directly, what should you do? This is where the Power BI Service (“the Service”) comes in. The <span id="ITerm20">Service</span> is integrated into the Office 365 suite of products. You can access the Power BI Service in one of three ways:<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par18">Navigate to <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="http://www.app.powerbi.com"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">www.app.powerbi.com</span></span></a></span>. To sign in, use your <span id="ITerm21">Office 365</span> credentials or the sign-in credentials you used when you registered for a free license and the trial.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par19">From within <span id="ITerm22">Office 365</span>, click the tile for Power BI. You may have to go to <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">All apps</span> to surface the tile if you have never used it.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par20">From within the Desktop, after you have published your report, follow the hyperlink to the Service.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par21">The Service has three main areas: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">My workspace</span>, <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspaces</span>, and <span id="ITerm23"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Apps</span></span>. For this exam, it is essential to have familiarity with <span id="ITerm24"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspaces</span></span><span id="ITerm25"></span>. If you are using a free Power BI account, you will not have access to <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspaces</span>, only to <span id="ITerm26"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">My workspace</span></span>. Practicing only with <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">My workspace</span> will not provide access to the full capabilities of the Service, which is why you should sign up for the 60-day trial Power BI Pro license as you study for the exam.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec7"><h3 class="Heading">Workspaces, My workspace, and Apps</h3><div class="Para" id="Par22">A <strong class="EmphasisTypeBold ">workspace</strong> is a membership-based collaboration area within the Power BI Service. <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspaces</span> are created by an Admin, who could be someone in the business or someone in IT. If you are added to a <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspace</span><span id="ITerm27"></span><span id="ITerm28"></span>, it will appear on your list of <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspaces</span>. <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspaces</span> have four levels of membership:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par23"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Admin</em>: Has full control of the workspace</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par24"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Member</em>: Can create, edit, and delete content. Can add other members. Can decide what is included in the workspace’s app (if there is one)</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par25"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Contributor</em>: Can create, edit, and delete content</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par26"><em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Viewer</em>: Can view content</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par27">You will not see a specific <span id="ITerm29">workspace</span><span id="ITerm30"></span> in the Service unless you have been added to it at one of the preceding levels of membership.</p><p class="Para" id="Par28"><span id="ITerm31"><strong class="EmphasisTypeBold ">My workspace</strong></span> is a sandbox area where you can publish reports and experiment with the features of the Service. You should not publish content to My workspace that you wish to share with others.</p><p class="Para" id="Par29">An <strong class="EmphasisTypeBold ">app</strong><span id="ITerm32"></span><span id="ITerm33"></span> is a vehicle for the distribution of reports and dashboards within the Power BI Service. It is <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">not</em> the same thing as the Power BI mobile app. I think of the app as a magazine that has curated content and is distributed at intervals (weekly, monthly, quarterly). An <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">app</span> is associated with a specific workspace on a one-to-one basis (one <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">app</span>, one <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Workspace</span>). Someone with the right privileges in the workspace must create and update the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">app</span>. <span id="ITerm34"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Apps</span></span><span id="ITerm35"></span> can contain reports, dashboards, and Excel content. I will cover <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Apps</span> in more detail in a later chapter.</p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec8"><h3 class="Heading">Licensing</h3><p class="Para" id="Par30">You <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">can</em> use the suite of tools with a free <span id="ITerm36">license</span>. However, you will be limited in your capabilities using a free license: primarily you will not have access to Workspaces. To use Power BI within a workplace infrastructure, you will need a Pro license, which can be a trial license. If you want to work with the full Power BI ecosystem and you don’t already have a paid license, you will need to sign up for a Power BI Pro trial license, which is valid for 60 days.</p><div class="FormalPara FormalParaRenderingStyle1 ParaTypeImportant" id="FPar3"><div class="Heading">Tip</div><p class="Para FirstParaInFormalPara" id="Par31">You can’t sign up for a trial license with a consumer email address such as Gmail or Yahoo or AOL. You will need a “work”-related email to sign up.</p></div></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec9"><h3 class="Heading">Languages</h3><p class="Para" id="Par32">There are two <span id="ITerm37">languages</span><span id="ITerm38"></span> that are used with the Power BI ecosystem: M and <span id="ITerm39">DAX</span> (Data Analysis Expressions). You do not need to be an expert in either of these languages for the exam. But you will need to be familiar with basic DAX and <span id="ITerm40">M functions</span> and syntax.</p><p class="Para" id="Par33">We will cover the basics of the M language in Chapter <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="532800_1_En_4_Chapter.xhtml"><span class="RefSource">4</span></a></span> and DAX in Chapters <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="532800_1_En_6_Chapter.xhtml"><span class="RefSource">6</span></a></span> and <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="532800_1_En_7_Chapter.xhtml"><span class="RefSource">7</span></a></span>.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec10"><h2 class="Heading">Practicing Before the PL-300</h2><p class="Para" id="Par34">If you are working in Power BI already, you may not need a lot of practice prior to sitting for the exam. If, however, there are techniques or features that I refer to in this book with which you are unfamiliar, your best bet is to practice. The biggest challenge is acquiring a dataset that is easy to use. The good news is that Microsoft has several sample datasets available that you can use.</p><section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec11"><h3 class="Heading">Northwind Excel and CSV Files</h3><p class="Para" id="Par35">The easiest way to practice is to use <span id="ITerm41">Excel</span> and/or <span id="ITerm42">CSV files</span>. Almost every business user has familiarity with these two tools. <span id="ITerm43">Northwind</span> is a set of data that Microsoft developed for use as sample data. This data is fake, which makes the data safe for you to use without worrying about confidentiality. If you are using the Excel (or CSV) version, you can review the data so that you are familiar with it prior to using it in Power BI. You can also calculate results using Excel formulas, which can help you check your DAX code. The disadvantage of this data is that it is a small set of data with a limited number of fields in each worksheet. But as a <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">starter</em> dataset, I think it is excellent. You can find it on GitHub:</p><p class="Para" id="Par36"><span class="ExternalRef"><a href="https://github.com/graphql-compose/graphql-compose-examples/tree/master/examples/northwind/data/csv"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisTypeUnderline EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">https://github.com/graphql-compose/graphql-compose-examples/tree/master/examples/northwind/data/csv</span></span></a></span></p></section>
<section class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec12"><h3 class="Heading">AdventureWorks Database</h3><p class="Para" id="Par37">If you want a more robust (and realistic) set of data with which to practice, Microsoft has developed several databases. <span id="ITerm44">AdventureWorks DW</span> is the most commonly used, but there are others, such as Tailwind Toys.</p><p class="Para" id="Par38">AdventureWorks is available as a <span id="ITerm45">BAK file</span>, which you can use to restore a database to your local device. This process was unfamiliar to me as I had no database background (and still don’t); I assume it will be unfamiliar to many of you as well. I am going to outline the steps you will need to take to use the database so you understand the overall process. I will then provide a link to the Microsoft documentation where they give step-by-step instructions.</p><p class="Para" id="Par39">Step 1: Download the BAK file for <span id="ITerm46">AdventureWorks DW</span>. <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure?view=sql-server-ver15&amp;tabs=ssms"><span class="RefSource">Find the BAK file for AdventureWorks here</span></a></span>.</p><p class="Para" id="Par40">Step 2: Install SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS). This is a free application (there are paid versions, but you don’t need one) available <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms?view=sql-server-ver15"><span class="RefSource">here</span></a></span>.</p><p class="Para" id="Par41">Step 3: Install Microsoft SQL Server on your local device. This is where the AdventureWorks database will be hosted.</p><p class="Para" id="Par42">Alternate Step 3: Set up an Azure AD account and use the Azure SQL Server option. Note that you will need an Internet connection to access a database hosted in Azure. <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">Read all the fine print if you choose this option so that you aren’t surprised by any charges.</em></p><p class="Para" id="Par43">Step 4: Use SSMS to restore the database from the BAK file. There are detailed instructions on how to do this at the following URL:</p><p class="Para" id="Par44"><span class="ExternalRef"><a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure?view=sql-server-ver15&amp;tabs=ssms#restore-to-sql-server"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure?view=sql-server-ver15&amp;tabs=ssms#restore-to-sql-server</span></span></a></span></p><p class="Para" id="Par45">Step 5: Use the credentials that you set up for the database to connect from the Power BI Desktop. Take care to note if you are going to use database credentials or Windows credentials to connect to your database.</p></section>
</section>
<section class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec13"><h2 class="Heading">What and Why?</h2><p class="Para" id="Par46">When planning this book, I had to decide on both content and perspective. I could have made this a “how-to” book, but there are many excellent “how-to” books—many of them published by Apress! My <span id="ITerm47">approach</span> is to explain a feature (<em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">what is</em>) and <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">why</em> it is important to understand it. If I believe that knowing a feature or concept will make you a well-rounded Power BI practitioner, I have included it, even if it does not appear on the <span id="ITerm48">PL-300 exam</span>. Don’t misunderstand me: there are many features that I do not cover at all because they are more complex or advanced. In Chapter <span class="ExternalRef"><a href="532800_1_En_15_Chapter.xhtml"><span class="RefSource">15</span></a></span>, I will provide a list of books, blogs, and YouTube channels that provide excellent “how-to” content. The feature set in <span id="ITerm49">Power BI</span> is constantly changing, and it is better to use frequently updated sources to learn how to use a feature. In this book, I want to provide a road map for you so that you know <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">what</em> to study and <em class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">why</em>.</p></section>
</div></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>