<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_11">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_11"><span class="color">11 April<br/> The Four Competencies of a Leader</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Keep your eye on the task, not on yourself.</span></p>
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The task matters, and you are a servant.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">M</span></span>ost organizations need somebody who can lead regardless of the weather. What matters is that he or she works on the basic competencies. As the first such basic competence, I would put the willingness, ability, and self-discipline to <span class="italic">listen.</span> Listening is not a skill; it is a discipline. Anybody can do it. All you have to do is to keep your mouth shut. The second essential competence is the willingness to <span class="italic">communicate,</span> to make yourself understood. That requires infinite patience. The next important competence is <span class="italic">not to alibi.</span> Say: “This doesn’t work as well as it should. Let’s take it back and reengineer it.” The last basic competence is the willingness to realize how unimportant you are compared to the task. Leaders subordinate themselves to the <span class="italic">task.</span></p>
<p class="para">When effective leaders have the capacity to maintain their personality and individuality, even though they are totally dedicated, the task will go on after them. They also have a human existence outside of the task. Otherwise they do things for personal aggrandizement, in the belief that this furthers the cause. They become self-centered and vain. And above all, they become jealous. One of the great strengths of Winston Churchill was that Churchill, to the very end, pushed and furthered young politicians.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Set aside ten minutes every Friday afternoon to give yourself a weekly report card on all four skills: listening, communicating, reengineering mistakes, and subordinating your ego to the task at hand.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing the Non-Profit Organization</span></p>
<a id="page130"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>