<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="l_11">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="december.xhtml#bl_11"><span class="color">11 December<br/> Six Rules of Successful Acquisitions</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Acquisitions should be successful, but few are, in fact.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">A</span></span>cquisitions should be successful, but few are, in fact. The reason for this nonperformance is always the same: disregard of the well-known and well-tested rules for successful acquisitions.</p>
<p class="para">The six rules of successful acquisitions are:</p>
<ol class="ol-arabic">
<li>The successful acquisition must be based on business strategy, not financial strategy.</li>
<li>The successful acquisition must be based on what the acquirer contributes to the acquisition.</li>
<li>The two entities must share a common core of unity, such as markets and marketing, or technology, or core competencies.</li>
<li>The acquirer must respect the business, products, and customers of the acquired company, as well as its values.</li>
<li>The acquirer must be prepared to provide top management to the acquired business within a fairly short period, a year at most.</li>
<li>The successful acquisition must rapidly create visible opportunities for advancement for both the people in the acquiring business and people in the acquired business.</li>
</ol>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Evaluate three acquisition prospects against these six rules. Which ones would you recommend that your organization pursue?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Frontiers of Management</span><br/><span class="italic">The Successful Acquisition</span> (Corpedia Online Program).</p>
<a id="page394"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>