<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="f_12">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="june.xhtml#bf_12"><span class="color">12 June<br/> Management Education</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Management courses for people without a few years of management experience are a waste of time.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">W</span></span>hat I would like to see—and what I have practiced now for many years in my own teaching—is:</p>
<ul class="bulletList">
<li>Management education <span class="italic">only</span> for already successful people. I believe management courses for people without a few years of management experience are a waste of time.</li>
<li>Management education for people from the private, the public, and the not-for-profit sectors <span class="italic">together.</span></li>
<li>Planned, systematic work by the students while at school in <span class="italic">real</span> work assignments in real organizations—the equivalent to the MD residency.</li>
<li>Far more emphasis on government, society, history, and the political process.</li>
<li>Teachers with real management experience and enough of a consulting practice to know real challenges.</li>
<li>Major emphasis on the <span class="italic">nonquantifiable</span> areas that are the real challenges—and especially on the nonquantifiable areas <span class="italic">outside</span> the business—at the same time much greater quantitative skills, that is, in understanding both the limitations of the available numbers and <span class="italic">how to use</span> numbers.</li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Take executive development courses that pertain to your current position and the position to which you aspire. Apply the concepts directly to your work assignments.</p>
<p class="chapterByline">“An Interview with Peter Drucker,” <span class="italic">The Academy of Management Executive</span></p>
<a id="page197"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>