<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_12">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_12"><span class="color">12 July<br/> Systematic Innovation</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Successful entrepreneurs do not wait until the “the Muse kisses them” and gives them a bright idea; they go to work.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">S</span></span>ystematic innovation means monitoring seven sources for innovative opportunity. The first four sources lie within the enterprise, whether business or public-service institution, or within an industry or service sector. The <span class="italic">unexpected</span>—the unexpected success, the unexpected failure, the unexpected outside event; the <span class="italic">incongruity</span>—between reality as it actually is and reality as it is assumed to be or as it “ought to be”; innovation based on <span class="italic">process need; changes in industry structure or market structure</span> that catch everyone unawares. The second set of sources for innovative opportunity involves changes outside the enterprise or industry: <span class="italic">demographics</span> (population changes); <span class="italic">changes in perception, mood,</span> and <span class="italic">meaning; new knowledge,</span> both scientific and nonscientific.</p>
<p class="para">The lines between these seven source areas of innovative opportunities are blurred, and there is considerable overlap between them. They can be likened to seven windows, each on a different side of the same building. Each window shows some features that can also be seen from the window on either side of it. But the view from the center of each is distinct and different.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Monitor the seven windows of innovative opportunity: the unexpected; the incongruity; process need; changes in industry structure or market structure; changes in demographics; changes in perception, mood, and meaning; and new knowledge.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Innovation and Entrepreneurship</span></p>
<a id="page229"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>