<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_12">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_12"><span class="color">12 March<br/> The Purpose of a Business</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">A business enterprise has two basic functions: marketing and innovation.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>f we want to know what a business is, we have to start with its <span class="italic">purpose.</span> And the purpose must lie outside the business itself. In fact, it must lie in society, since a business enterprise is an organ of society. There is only one valid definition of business purpose: <span class="italic">to create a customer.</span> The customer is the foundation of a business and keeps it in existence. He alone gives employment. And it is to supply the customer that society entrusts wealth-producing resources to the business enterprise.</p>
<p class="para">Because it is the purpose to create a customer, any business enterprise has two—and only two—basic functions: marketing and innovation. These are the entrepreneurial functions. Marketing is the distinguishing, the unique function of Business.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Find out what needs your customers want fulfilled today. Determine how well your products are meeting the needs of your customers.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Practice of Management</span></p>
<a id="page97"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>