<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="k_12">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="november.xhtml#bk_12"><span class="color">12 November<br/> The Work of the Manager</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Managers can improve their performance by improving their performance of these constituent activities.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>here are five basic operations in the work of the manager.</p>
<ul class="bulletList">
<li>Managers, in the first place, set objectives. They determine what the objectives should be. They determine what the goals in each area of objectives should be. They decide what has to be done to reach these objectives. They make the objectives effective by communicating them to the people whose performance is needed to attain them.</li>
<li>Second, managers organize. They analyze the activities, decisions, and relations needed. They classify the work. They divide it into manageable activities and further divide the activities into manageable jobs. They group these units and jobs into an organization structure. They select people for the management of these units and for the jobs to be done.</li>
<li>Next, managers motivate and communicate. They make a team out of the people who are responsible for various jobs.</li>
<li>The fourth basic element in the work of the manager is measurement. The manager establishes yardsticks—and few factors are as important to the performance of the organization and of every person in it.</li>
<li>Finally, managers develop people, including themselves.</li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Manage by setting objectives and organizing, motivating, communicating with, measuring, and developing people, including yourself.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices</span></p>
<a id="page363"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>