<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="k_13">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="november.xhtml#bk_13"><span class="color">13 November<br/> Management by Objectives<br/>and Self-Control</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">“Control” is an ambiguous word.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he greatest advantage of management by objectives is perhaps that it makes it possible for a manager to control his own performance. Self-control means stronger motivation: a desire to do the best rather than just enough to get by. It means higher performance goals and broader vision. Even if management by objectives were not necessary to give the enterprise the unity of direction and effort of a management team, it would be necessary to make possible management by self-control.</p>
<p class="para">“Control” means the ability to direct oneself and one’s work. It can also mean domination of one person by another. Objectives are the basis of “control” in the first sense; but they must never become the basis of “control” in the second, for this would defeat their purpose. Indeed, one of the major contributions of management by objectives is that it enables us to substitute management by self-control for management by domination. It should be clearly understood what behavior and methods the company bars as unethical, unprofessional, or unsound. But within these limits every manager must be free to decide what he or she has to do.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Management by objectives has enjoyed widespread use, but not self-control. Why is this?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Practice of Management</span></p>
<a id="page364"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>