<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="h_14">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="august.xhtml#bh_14"><span class="color">14 August<br/> Unrealized Business Potential</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">“Opportunity is where you find it,” not where it finds you.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">L</span></span>uck, chance, and catastrophe affect business as they do all human endeavors. But luck never built a business. Prosperity and growth come only to the business that systematically finds and exploits its potential. No matter how successfully a business organizes itself for the challenges and opportunities of the present, it will still be far below its optimum performance. Its potential is always greater than its realized actuality.</p>
<p class="para">Dangers and weaknesses indicate where to look for business potential. To convert them from problems into opportunities brings extraordinary returns. Opportunities have to be reflected against the experience of a company and against its past successes and failures. Sometimes all that is needed to accomplish this transformation is a change in the attitude of the executives. Three questions will bring out the hidden potential of a business:</p>
<ul class="bulletList">
<li>What are the restraints and limitations that make the business vulnerable?</li>
<li>What are the imbalances of the business?</li>
<li>What are we afraid of, what do we see as a threat to this business—and how can we use it as an opportunity?</li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Answer these three questions for your enterprise and move closer to optimum performance.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing for Results</span></p>
<a id="page265"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>