<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_14">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_14"><span class="color">14 March<br/> Universal Entrepreneurial Disciplines</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The entrepreneurial disciplines are not just desirable; they are conditions for survival today.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">E</span></span>very institution—and not only businesses—must build into its day-to-day management four entrepreneurial activities that run in parallel. One is organized abandonment of products, services, processes, markets, distribution channels, and so on that are no longer an optimal allocation of resources. Then any institution must organize for systematic, continuing improvement. Then it has to organize for systematic and continuous exploitation, especially of its successes. And finally, it has to organize systematic innovation, that is, create the different tomorrow that makes obsolete and, to a large extent, replaces even the most successful products of today in an organization. I emphasize that these disciplines are not just desirable; they are conditions for survival today.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Abandon what is about to be obsolete, develop a system to exploit your successes, and develop a systematic approach to innovation.</p>
<p class="chapterByline">“Management’s New Paradigms,” <span class="italic">Forbes</span><br/><span class="italic">Management Challenges for the 21st Century</span><br/><span class="italic">The Next Society</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page99"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>