<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_15">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_15"><span class="color">15 July<br/> Incongruity</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The incongruity bespeaks an underlying “fault.”</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>here is often a discrepancy between “what is” and what management thinks “ought to be” that represents an incongruity within an industry, a market, and a process. The incongruity may be clearly visible to the people within or close to the industry, market, or process. Insiders may notice it but think, “this is the way it has always been,” as a reason for not initiating a change. Change leaders exploit these incongruities to the organization’s advantage.</p>
<p class="para">Take, for example, the unequal information in the hands of buyers and sellers of automobiles. There are a few things about buying vehicles most of us dislike. These include haggling over price, misleading ads, spending hours at a dealership while the salesperson goes back and forth between the sales manager and us, and so on. Several online organizations have created one-stop shopping for used and new automobiles with complete and accurate information about vehicles of all types, including warranties, financing, and insurance. They have leveled the playing field for consumers.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Are there any incongruities within a process or within your market that may be exploited to your advantage?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Innovation and Entrepreneurship</span><br/><span class="italic">Driving Change</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page232"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>