<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_15">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_15"><span class="color">15 March<br/> Managing for the Short Term and Long Term</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">John Maynard Keynes’s best-known saying is surely “In the long run we are all dead.” It is a total fallacy that, as Keynes implies, optimizing the short term creates the right long-term future.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>t is a value question whether a business should be run for short-term results or for “the long run.” Financial analysts believe that businesses can be run for both, simultaneously. Successful businessmen know better. To be sure, everyone has to produce short-term results. But in any conflict between short-term results and long-term growth, one company decides in favor of long-term growth, and another company decides such a conflict in favor of short-term results. Again, this is not primarily a disagreement on economics. It is fundamentally a value conflict regarding the function of a business and the responsibility of management.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Does your organization sacrifice the long-term wealth-producing capacity of the enterprise to produce short-term results? Discuss how you can break out of this trap and still produce short-term profits.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Ecological Vision</span><br/><span class="italic">Management Challenges for the 21st Century</span></p>
<a id="page100"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>