<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="a_16">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="january.xhtml#ba_16"><span class="color">16 January<br/> The Function of Management<br/>Is to Produce Results</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Above all management is responsible for producing results.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">M</span></span>anagement has to give direction to the institution it manages. It has to think through the institution’s mission, has to set its objectives, and has to organize resources for the results the institution has to contribute. Management is, indeed, J. B. Say’s “entrepreneur” and responsible for directing vision and resources toward greatest results and contributions.</p>
<p class="para">In performing these essential functions, management everywhere faces the same problems. It has to organize work for productivity; it has to lead the worker toward productivity <span class="italic">and</span> achievement. It is responsible for the social impact of its enterprise. Above all, it is responsible for producing the results—whether economic performance, student learning, or patient care—for the sake of which each institution exists.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Is your organization delivering the results it should? If not, articulate your mission.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices</span></p>
<a id="page35"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>