<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="e_16">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="may.xhtml#be_16"><span class="color">16 May<br/> Managing Nontraditional Employees</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The challenge to executives is to coordinate efforts of all categories of workers.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">A</span></span>long with full-time employees, PEOs, and temp workers, there may also be a closely linked but separately managed organization made up of nontraditional employees in the new corporation. Increasingly, employees take early retirement but they do not stop working. Instead, their “second career” often takes an unconventional form. They may work freelance, or part-time, or as temporaries, or for an outsourcing contractor, or as contractors themselves. Such “early retirement to keep on working” is particularly common among knowledge workers.</p>
<p class="para">Attracting and holding these diverse groups will become the central tasks of people management in the new corporation. These people do not have permanent relationships with the business. They may not have to be managed, but they have to be made productive. They will therefore have to be deployed where their specialized knowledge can make the greatest contribution. Managers need to work closely with their counterparts in the outsource contractor organization on the professional development, motivation, satisfaction, and productivity of these nontraditional workers.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Attract and integrate nontraditional employees effectively into your organization.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in the Next Society</span><br/><span class="italic">The Next Society</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page167"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>