<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_18">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_18"><span class="color">18 April<br/> Decision Steps for Picking People</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The most important thing is that</span> the person and the assignment fit each other.</p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">G</span></span>eneral George C. Marshall followed Five Simple Decision Steps in making people decisions. First, Marshall carefully thought through the <span class="italic">assignment.</span> Job descriptions may last a long time, but job assignments change all the time. Second, Marshall always looked at <span class="italic">several qualified people.</span> Formal qualifications, such as those listed in a résumé, are no more than a starting point. Their absence disqualifies a candidate. However, the most important thing is that <span class="italic">the person and the assignment fit each other.</span> To find the best fit, you must consider <span class="italic">at least three to five candidates.</span> Third, Marshall studied <span class="italic">the performance records</span> of all three to five candidates to find what each did well. He looked for the candidate’s strengths. The things a person cannot do are of little importance; instead, you must concentrate on the things they can do and determine whether they are the right strengths for this particular assignment. Performance can only be built on strengths. Fourth, Marshall <span class="italic">discussed the candidates with others who had worked with them.</span> The best information often comes through informal discussions with a candidate’s former bosses and colleagues. And fifth, once the decision was made, Marshall made sure the appointee <span class="italic">understood the assignment.</span> Perhaps the best way to do this is to ask the new person to carefully think over what they have to do to be a success, and then, ninety days into the job, have the person commit it to writing.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Follow these five decision steps when hiring someone: Understand the job, consider three to five people, study candidates performance records to find their strengths, talk to the candidates’ colleagues about them, and once hired, explain the assignment to the new employee.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Essential Drucker</span><br/><span class="italic">People Decisions</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page137"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>