<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_19">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_19"><span class="color">19 July<br/> Changes in Perception</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">If general perception changes from seeing the glass as “half-full” to seeing the glass as “half-empty,” there are major innovative opportunities.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>n mathematics there is no difference between “the glass is half full” and “the glass is half empty.” But the meanings of these two statements are totally different, and so are their consequences. If general perception changes from seeing the glass as “half full” to seeing it as “half empty,” there are major innovative opportunities.</p>
<p class="para">Unexpected success or unexpected failure is often an indication of change in perception and meaning for the consumer. When a change in perception takes place, the facts do not change. Their meaning does. For example, American health hypochondria represents a change in American values, such as worship of youth, more than a reaction to the health statistics. Forty years ago even minor improvements in the nation’s health were seen as major steps forward. Now dramatic improvements are barely paid attention to. This change in perception has created a vast market for new health-care magazines, alternative sources of medicine, physical fitness centers, and other “wellness” goods and services.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Define a major change in perception influencing your industry. Exploit this change.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Innovation and Entrepreneurship</span><br/><span class="italic">Driving Change</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page236"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>