<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="j_19">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="october.xhtml#bj_19"><span class="color">19 October<br/> Moving Beyond Capitalism</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">I believe it is socially and morally unforgivable when managers reap huge profits for themselves but fire workers.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span> am for the free market. Even though it doesn’t work too well, nothing else works at all. But I have serious reservations about capitalism as a system because it idolizes economics as the be-all and end-all of life. It is one-dimensional. For example, I have often advised managers that a 20–1 salary ratio between senior executives and rank-and-file white-<br/>collar workers is the limit beyond which they cannot go if they don’t want resentment and falling morale to hit their companies.</p>
<p class="para">Today, I believe it is socially and morally unforgivable when managers reap huge profits for themselves but fire workers. As societies, we will pay a heavy price for the contempt this generates among middle managers and workers. In short, whole dimensions of what it means to be a human being and treated as one are not incorporated into the economic calculus of capitalism. For such a myopic system to dominate other aspects of life is not good for any society.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Have executives in your organization reaped huge profits for themselves while laying off significant numbers of workers? Enumerate the ways these policies have led to contempt and falling morale.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in the Next Society</span></p>
<a id="page336"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>