<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_1">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_1"><span class="color">1 July<br/> Theory of the Business</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">A clear, simple, and penetrating theory of the business, rather than intuition, characterizes the truly successful entrepreneur.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">A</span></span> theory of the business has three parts. First, there are assumptions about the <span class="italic">environment</span> of the organization: society and its structure, the market, the customer, and technology. The assumptions about the environment define what an organization is paid for. Second, there are assumptions about the <span class="italic">specific mission</span> of the organization. The assumptions about mission define what an organization considers to be meaningful results—they point to how it envisions itself making a difference in the economy and society at large. Third, there are assumptions about the <span class="italic">core competencies</span> needed to accomplish the organization’s mission. Core competencies define where an organization must excel in order to maintain leadership.</p>
<p class="para">Every one of the great business builders we know of—from the Medici and the founders of the Bank of England down to IBM’s Thomas Watson in our day—had a definite idea, had, indeed, <span class="italic">a clear theory of the business</span> that informed his actions and decisions. A clear, simple, and penetrating theory of the business, rather than intuition, characterizes the truly successful entrepreneur, the person who builds an organization that can endure and grow long after he or she is gone.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> A company that was a superstar only yesterday finds itself stagnating and in an unmanageable crisis. What does this say about the company’s theory of the business?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices</span><br/><span class="italic">Managing in a Time of Great Change</span></p>
<a id="page218"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>