<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="h_20">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="august.xhtml#bh_20"><span class="color">20 August<br/> Changing Economic Characteristics</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Successful innovators price according to what the customer pays for.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">U</span></span>nder the other entrepreneurial strategies, the innovator has to come up with an innovative product or service; here the <span class="italic">strategy itself</span> is the innovation. The innovative strategy converts an existing product or service into something new by changing its utility, its value, and its economic characteristics. There is new economic value and new customers, but no new product or service. Often the most successful way to change the economic characteristics of a product or service is to change its pricing. In the end the producer gets at least the same amount of money, if not a good deal more. But the way pricing is structured reflects the customer’s reality rather than the reality of the producer.</p>
<p class="para">Here is an example. The Internet was designed as an <span class="italic">information network.</span> And most providers charged for access to it, such as for hosting an e-mail address. But Yahoo and other companies give away Internet access. It gets paid for by advertisers whose ads the customers have to see when they go online. Yahoo asked: <span class="italic">“Who</span> is the customer?” Its answer: “It’s a supplier who wants access to a potential customer.” This changed the characteristics of the industry. It gave the Internet a new dimension.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Determine what your customers really buy. Serve them in a way that better meets their needs and also creates enhanced economic results for your organization.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Innovation and Entrepreneurship</span><br/><span class="italic">Entrepreneurial Strategies</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page271"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>