<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_20">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_20"><span class="color">20 July<br/> New Knowledge</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">In the theory and practice of innovation and entrepreneurship, the bright-idea innovation belongs in the appendix.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">N</span></span>ew knowledge is not the most reliable or most predictable source of successful innovations. For all the visibility, glamour, and importance of science-based innovation, it is actually the least reliable and least predictable one. Knowledge-based innovation has the longest lead-time of any innovation. First, there is a long time span between the emergence of new knowledge, and it’s becoming applicable to technology. And then there is another long period before the new technology turns into products, processes, or services in the marketplace.</p>
<p class="para">The introduction of innovation creates excitement and attracts a host of competitors, meaning that innovators have to be right the first time. They are unlikely to get a second chance. Here, even successful innovators almost immediately have far more company than they want and must prepare themselves to weather the storm that lies ahead. For example, Apple Computer invented the personal computer. IBM was able to wrest market leadership from Apple through creative imitation. Apple failed to maintain its leadership position and became a niche player because it failed to predict and respond to the competition it would face. In the theory and practice of innovation and entrepreneurship, the bright-idea innovation belongs in the appendix. But it should be appreciated and rewarded. It represents qualities that society needs: initiative, ambition, and ingenuity.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Are you and your organization inventors or imitators? If the former, remember to predict the competition that your successful invention might inspire, and plan on responding to that competition.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Innovation and Entrepreneurship</span><br/><span class="italic">Driving Change</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page237"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>