<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_20">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_20"><span class="color">20 March<br/> A Scorecard for Managers</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The things that the proponents of “management audits” talk about—integrity and creativity, for instance—are better left to the novelist.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he “bottom line” measures business performance rather than management performance. And the performance of a business today is largely a result of the performance of management in years past. Performance in management, therefore, means in large measure doing a good job of preparing today’s business for the future. The future of a business is largely formed by present-management performance in four areas:</p>
<ul class="bulletList">
<li><span class="italic">Performance in appropriating capital:</span> We need to measure the return on investment against the return expected.</li>
<li><span class="italic">Performance in people decisions:</span> Neither what is expected of a person’s performance when he or she is put into the job, nor how the appointment works out, is “intangible.” Both can be fairly easily judged.</li>
<li><span class="italic">Performance in innovation:</span> Research results can be appraised, and then projected backward on the promises and expectations at the time the research effort was started.</li>
<li><span class="italic">Strategies versus performance:</span> Did the things that the strategy expected to happen take place? And were the goals set the right goals in light of actual developments? Have they been attained?</li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Perform a management audit of yourself and the people who report directly to you. The criteria should include whether you/they made good people decisions, whether you/they have had any innovative ideas, and whether your/their strategic expectations came to pass.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in Turbulent Times</span></p>
<a id="page105"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>