<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="a_21">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="january.xhtml#ba_21"><span class="color">21 January<br/> Profit’s Function</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Today’s profitable business will become tomorrow’s white elephant.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">J</span></span>oseph Schumpeter insisted that innovation is the very essence of economics and most certainly of a modern economy. Schumpeter’s <span class="italic">Theory of Economic Development</span> makes profit fulfill an economic function. In the economy of change and innovation, a profit, in contrast to Karl Marx’s theory, is not a “surplus value” stolen from the workers. On the contrary, it is the only source of jobs for workers and of labor income. The theory of economic development shows that no one except the innovator makes a genuine “profit”; and the innovator’s profit is always quite short-lived.</p>
<p class="para">But innovation, in Schumpeter’s famous phrase, is also “creative destruction.” It makes obsolete yesterday’s capital equipment and capital investment. The more an economy progresses, the more capital formation will it therefore need. Thus, what the classical economist—or the accountant or the stock exchange—considers “profit” is a genuine cost, the cost of staying in business, the cost of a future in which nothing is predictable except that today’s profitable business will become tomorrow’s white elephant.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Insure that you are investing enough in innovation to prepare for the day when your profitable business becomes obsolete.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Ecological Vision</span></p>
<a id="page40"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>