<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_21">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_21"><span class="color">21 July<br/> Innovation in Public-Service Institutions</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Most innovations in public-service institutions are imposed on them either by outsiders or by catastrophe.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>nstitutions such as government agencies, labor unions, churches, universities and schools, hospitals, community and charitable organizations, professional and trade associations, and the like need to be entrepreneurial and innovative fully as much as any business does. Indeed, they may need it more.</p>
<p class="para">The rapid changes in today’s society, technology, and economy are simultaneously an even greater threat to them and an even greater opportunity. Yet public-service institutions find it far more difficult to innovate than even the most “bureaucratic” company. The “existing” seems to be even more of an obstacle. To be sure, every service institution likes to get bigger. In the absence of a profit test, size is the one criterion of success for a service institution, and growth a goal in itself. And then, of course, there is always so much more that needs to be done. But stopping what has “always been done” and doing something new are equally anathema to service institutions, or at least excruciatingly painful to them. Most innovations in public-service institutions are imposed on them either by outsiders or by catastrophe. For example, the modern American university in the mid-nineteenth century came into being when the country’s traditional colleges and universities were dying and could no longer attract students.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Fight the bureaucrats at your nonprofit institution who just do what has “always been done.” Do something new that addresses the rapid social, technological, or economic changes buffeting your institution.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Innovation and Entrepreneurship</span></p>
<a id="page238"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>