<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="e_21">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="may.xhtml#be_21"><span class="color">21 May<br/> Productivity of Service Work</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Raising the productivity of service work is the first</span> social responsibility <span class="italic">of management.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he need to raise the productivity of <span class="italic">service</span> work is a social priority in developed countries. Unless it is met, the developed world faces increasing social tensions, increasing polarization, increasing radicalization. It may increasingly face a new class war. Unless the productivity of service work is rapidly improved, both the social and economic position of a large class—as large a group as people making and moving things ever were at their peak—must steadily go down. Real incomes cannot for any length of time be higher than productivity. The service workers may use their numerical strength to get higher wages than their economic contribution justifies. But this only impoverishes all of society with everybody’s real income going down and unemployment going up. Or the incomes of the unskilled workers are allowed to go down in relation to the steadily rising wages of the affluent knowledge workers, with an increasing gulf between the two groups, an increasing polarization into classes. In either case the service workers must become alienated, increasingly bitter, increasingly see themselves as a <span class="italic">class apart.</span></p>
<p class="para">We know <span class="italic">how to raise</span> service work productivity. This is production work and what we have learned during the past hundred years about increasing productivity applies to such work with minimum adaptation. The task is known and doable, but the urgency is great. It is, in fact, the first <span class="italic">social responsibility</span> of management in the knowledge society.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Set annual targets for raising the productivity of your service staff. Reward those who are successful in meeting these new targets.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Ecological Vision</span></p>
<a id="page172"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>