<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_21">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_21"><span class="color">21 March<br/> Beyond the Information Revolution</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">There is a</span> service <span class="italic">waiting to be born.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he truly revolutionary impact of the information revolution is just beginning to be felt. But it is not “information” that fuels this impact. It is something that practically no one foresaw or even talked about fifteen or twenty years ago: <span class="italic">e-commerce</span>—that is, the explosive emergence of the Internet as a major, perhaps eventually <span class="italic">the</span> major, worldwide distribution channel for goods, for services, and, surprisingly, for managerial and professional jobs. This is profoundly changing economies, markets, and industry structures; products and services and their flow; consumer segmentation, consumer values, and consumer behavior; jobs and labor markets.</p>
<p class="para">New and unexpected industries will no doubt emerge, and fast. There is a <span class="italic">service</span> waiting to be born.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Fast-forward to 2015. What are three entirely new businesses that will emerge in your industry from technological developments that you can identify today?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in the Next Society</span></p>
<a id="page106"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>