<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_22">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_22"><span class="color">22 April<br/> A Good Judge of People?</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">“There are only people who make people decisions right…and people who make people decisions wrong and then repent at leisure.”</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">“I</span></span> know,” Mr. Sloan continued, “you think I should be a good judge of people. Believe me, there’s no such person. There are only people who make people decisions right, and that means slowly, and people who make people decisions wrong and then repent at leisure. We do make fewer mistakes, not because we’re good judges of people but because we’re conscientious.”</p>
<p class="para">Decisions on people usually provoked heated debate in the General Motors executive committee. But on one occasion the whole committee seemed to be agreed on one candidate—he had handled this crisis superbly, solved that problem beautifully, quenched yonder fire with great aplomb—when suddenly Mr. Sloan broke in. “A very impressive record your Mr. Smith has,” he said, “but do explain to me how he gets into all those crises he then so brilliantly surmounts?” Nothing more was heard of Mr. Smith. However, on occasion Mr. Sloan could also say, “You know all the things Mr. George cannot do—how come he got as far as he did? What <span class="italic">can</span> he do?” And when Mr. Sloan was told, he would say, “Alright, he’s not brilliant, and not fast, and looks drab. But hasn’t he always <span class="italic">performed?”</span> And Mr. George turned into a most successful general manager in a big division at a difficult time.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Make decisions on people your top priority. Spend more time on these decisions so that you will not have to “repent at leisure.”</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Adventures of a Bystander</span></p>
<a id="page141"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>