<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_22">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_22"><span class="color">22 March<br/> Internet Technology and Education</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The medium not only controls how things are communicated, but what things are communicated.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>n health care, information technology has already made a fabulous impact. In education, its impact will be greater. However, attempts to put ordinary college courses on the Internet are a mistake. Marshall McLuhan was correct. The medium controls not only how things are communicated, but what things are communicated. On the Web, you must do it differently.</p>
<p class="para">You must redesign everything. Firstly, you must hold students’ attention. Any good teacher has a radar system to get the class’s reaction, but you don’t have that online. Secondly, you must enable students to do what they can do in a college course, which is to go back and forth. So, online you must combine a book’s qualities with a course’s continuity and flow. Above all, you must put it in a context. In a college course, the college provides the context. In that online course you turn on at home, the course must provide the background, the context, the references.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Think about your organization’s online services, from Web-based learning to health benefits to compliance. Ask a few employees who use these services whether they are satisfied with them. Hint: Bring earplugs!</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in the Next Society</span></p>
<a id="page107"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>