<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="b_23">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="february.xhtml#bb_23"><span class="color">23 February<br/> The New Tasks of Government</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The new tasks will require a different form of government.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he new tasks all will require more rather than less government. But they will require a different <span class="italic">form</span> of government. The greatest threat is damage to the human habitat. Second only to caring for the environment is the growing need for transnational action and institutions to abort the return of private armies and stamp out terrorism.</p>
<p class="para">Terrorism is all the more threatening as very small groups can effectively hold even large countries to ransom. A nuclear bomb can easily be put into a locker or a postal box in any major city and exploded by remote control; so could a bacterial bomb, containing enough anthrax spores to kill thousands of people and to contaminate a big city’s water supply, making it un-inhabitable. What is needed to control the threat of terrorism is action that goes beyond any one sovereign state. The design of the necessary agencies is still ahead of us; so is the length of time it will take any of them to develop. It may well take major catastrophes to make national governments willing to accept subordination to such institutions and their decisions.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Get involved with industry-wide initiatives of importance to you and your company by partnering with multinational groups like the International Atomic Energy Agency, which fights nuclear terrorism.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Post-Capitalist Society</span></p>
<a id="page76"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>