<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="e_23">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="may.xhtml#be_23"><span class="color">23 May<br/> Knowledge-Worker Productivity</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Knowledge-worker productivity requires that the knowledge worker be both seen and treated as an</span> asset <span class="italic">rather than a</span> cost.</p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">W</span></span>ork on the productivity of the knowledge worker has barely begun. But we already know a good many of the answers. We also know the challenges to which we do not yet know the answers.</p>
<p class="para">Six major factors determine knowledge-worker productivity.</p>
<ol class="ol-arabic">
<li>Knowledge-worker productivity demands that we ask the question: “What is the task?”</li>
<li>It demands that we impose the responsibility for their productivity on the individual knowledge workers themselves. Knowledge workers have to manage themselves. They have to have autonomy.</li>
<li>Continuing innovation has to be part of the work, the task, and the responsibility of knowledge workers.</li>
<li>Knowledge work requires continuous learning on the part of the knowledge worker, but equally continuous teaching on the part of the knowledge worker.</li>
<li>Productivity of the knowledge worker is not—at least not primarily—a matter of the quantity of output. Quality is at least as important.</li>
<li>Finally, knowledge-worker productivity requires that the knowledge worker be both seen and treated as an “asset” rather than a “cost.” It requires that knowledge workers want to work for the organization in preference to all other opportunities.</li>
</ol>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Apply steps one through five to your knowledge work.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management Challenges for the 21st Century</span></p>
<a id="page174"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>