<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="l_24">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="december.xhtml#bl_24"><span class="color">24 December<br/> Human Existence in Tension</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">For Kierkegaard, human existence is possible only in tension—in tension between man’s simultaneous life as an individual in the spirit and as a citizen in society.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">D</span></span>isintegration of the rational character of society and the rational relationship between individual and society is the most revolutionary trait of our times.</p>
<p class="para">Society must make it possible for man to die without despair if it wants him to be able to live exclusively in society. And it can do so in only one way: by making <span class="italic">individual</span> life meaningless. If you are nothing but a leaf on the tree of the race, a cell in the body of society, then your death is not really death; you had better call it a process of collective regeneration. But then of course your life is not a real life either; it is just a functional process within the life of the whole, devoid of any meaning except in terms of the whole. Thus an optimism that proclaims human existence in society leads straight to despair. And this despair can lead only to totalitarianism. Human existence <span class="italic">is</span> possible as existence not in despair, as existence not in tragedy; it is possible as existence in Faith. Faith is the belief that in God the impossible is possible, that in Him time and eternity are one, that both life and death are meaningful.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Reflect on the following: “Human existence is possible only in tension—in tension between man’s simultaneous life as an individual in the spirit and as a citizen in society.”</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Ecological Vision</span><br/><span class="italic">The End of Economic Man</span></p>
<a id="page407"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>