<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="e_24">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="may.xhtml#be_24"><span class="color">24 May<br/> Defining the Task in Knowledge Work</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">In knowledge work, the</span> how <span class="italic">only comes after the</span> what <span class="italic">has been answered.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>n manual work the task is always given. Wherever there still are domestic servants, the owner of the house tells them what to do. The machine or the assembly line programs the factory worker. But, in knowledge work, <span class="italic">what to do</span> becomes the first and decisive question. For knowledge workers are not programmed by the machine. They largely are in control of their own tasks and must be in control of their own tasks. For they, and only they, own and control the most expensive of the means of production—their education—and their most important tool—their knowledge. They do use other tools, of course, whether the nurse’s IV or the engineer’s computer. But their knowledge decides how these tools are being used and for what. They know what steps are most important and what methods need to be used to complete the tasks; and it is their knowledge that tells them <span class="italic">what chores are unnecessary and should be eliminated.</span></p>
<p class="para">Work on knowledge-worker productivity therefore begins with asking the knowledge workers themselves: <span class="italic">What is your task? What should it be? What should you be expected to contribute?</span> and <span class="italic">What hampers you in doing your task and should be eliminated?</span> The <span class="italic">how</span> only comes after the <span class="italic">what</span> has been answered.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Define your task as a knowledge worker by asking yourself: “What do I get paid for?” and “What should I get paid for?”</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management Challenges for the 21st Century</span><br/><span class="italic">Knowledge Worker Productivity</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page175"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>