<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_25">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_25"><span class="color">25 April<br/> Sloan on Social Responsibility</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Authority without responsibility is illegitimate; but so is responsibility without authority.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">“P</span></span>ublic” responsibility was to Alfred Sloan worse than unprofessional; it was irresponsible, a usurpation of power. “We have a responsibility toward higher education,” a chief executive of a major American corporation once said at a meeting both Sloan and I attended. “Do we in business have any authority over higher education?” Sloan asked. “Should we have any?” “Of course not,” was the answer. “Then let’s not talk about ‘responsibility,’ ” said Sloan with asperity. “You are a senior executive in a big company and you know the first rule: authority and responsibility must be congruent and commensurate to each other. If you don’t want authority and shouldn’t have it, don’t talk about responsibility. And if you don’t want responsibility and shouldn’t have it, don’t talk about authority.”</p>
<p class="para">Sloan based this on management principles. But of course it is the first lesson of political theory and political history. Authority without responsibility is illegitimate; but so is responsibility without authority. Both lead to tyranny. Sloan wanted a great deal of authority for his professional manager, and was ready to take high responsibility. But for that reason he insisted on limiting authority to the areas of professional competence, and refused to assert or admit responsibility in areas outside them.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Do your areas of responsibility match your authority? Make recommendations for achieving a closer match.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Adventures of a Bystander</span></p>
<a id="page144"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>