<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="h_25">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="august.xhtml#bh_25"><span class="color">25 August</span></a></h2>
<div class="box">
<h2 class="boxTitle"><span class="bold">Three Case Studies on Innovation Strategy</span></h2>
<p class="boxTextNoIndent">Three pharmaceutical companies—<span class="italic">Able, Baker,</span> and <span class="italic">Charlie</span>—are among the most successful pharmaceutical businesses in the world. <span class="italic">Able</span> and <span class="italic">Baker</span> are very large. <span class="italic">Charlie<br/> Able Company: Research Strategy</span> is medium-sized, but growing fast. All three companies spend about the same percentage of their revenues on research. There the similarity ends. Each of them approaches research quite differently.</p>
</div>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Able’s aim is to gain early leadership in a major area, acquire dominance in it, and then maintain this leadership position.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">A</span></span></span><span class="italic">ble</span> Company—spends a great deal of research money on one carefully selected area at a time. It picks this area when pure research in the universities first indicates a genuine breakthrough. Then, long before commercial products are available, it hires the very best people in the field, and puts them to work. Outside of these areas, however, the company spends no research money and is perfectly willing not to be a factor at all. The company takes big positions in big fields at a very early stage, at great risk, but also at great reward.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Able Company is pursuing the______entrepreneurial strategy (see <span class="italic">August 16</span>) and the______window of opportunity (see <span class="italic">July 12</span>).</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management Cases</span></p>
<a id="page276"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>