<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="a_25">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="january.xhtml#ba_25"><span class="color">25 January<br/> Reinvent Yourself</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Knowledge people must take responsibility for their own development and placement.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>n today’s society and organizations, people work increasingly with knowledge, rather than with skill. Knowledge and skill differ in a fundamental characteristic—skills change very, very slowly. Knowledge, however, changes itself. It makes itself obsolete, and very rapidly. A knowledge worker becomes obsolescent if he or she does not go back to school every three or four years.</p>
<p class="para">This not only means that the equipment of learning, of knowledge, of skill, of experience that one acquires early is not sufficient for our present <span class="italic">life</span> time and working time. People change over such a long time span. They become different persons with different needs, different abilities, different perspectives, and, therefore, with a need to “reinvent themselves.” I quite intentionally use a stronger word than “revitalize.” If you talk of fifty years of working life—and this, I think, is going to be increasingly the norm—you have to reinvent yourself. You have to make something different out of yourself, rather than just find a new supply of energy.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Ask those ahead of you in age how they went about “re-potting themselves.” What steps should you take now?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Drucker on Asia</span></p>
<a id="page44"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>