<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="j_25">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="october.xhtml#bj_25"><span class="color">25 October<br/> Government in the International Sphere</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Environmental protection might well be the most productive purpose of foreign aid.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">W</span></span>e need strong, effective governments in the international sphere so that we can make the sacrifices of sovereignty needed to give us working supranational institutions for the world society and world economy.</p>
<p class="para">Protection of the environment today requires international ecological laws. We might “quarantine” polluters and forbid shipment in international commerce of goods produced under conditions that seriously pollute or damage the human habitat—for example, by polluting the oceans, by raising the temperature of the atmosphere, or by depleting its ozone. This will be decried as “interference with sovereign nations”—and so it is. It will probably require that the developed rich countries compensate the developing poor ones for the high costs of environmental protection, such as sewage treatment plants. In fact, environmental protection might well be the most productive purpose of foreign aid and far more successful than development aid.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Support the use of foreign aid to protect the environment.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Age of Discontinuity</span><br/><span class="italic">The New Realities</span></p>
<a id="page342"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>