<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="j_26">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="october.xhtml#bj_26"><span class="color">26 October<br/> Needed: Strong Labor Unions</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">To become again a dynamic, effective, legitimate organ, the labor union will have to transform itself.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he true strength of the labor movement in developed countries has been moral: its claim to be the political conscience of a modern secular society.</p>
<p class="para">Management—no matter who “owns” and no matter whether the institution is a business, a government agency, or a hospital—has to have considerable power and authority—power and authority grounded in the needs of the enterprise and based on competence. And power, as the drafters of the American Constitution knew, needs to be limited by countervailing power. Modern society, a society of organizations each requiring strong management, needs an organ such as the labor union. In the last few years events have amply proved this. But to become again a dynamic, effective, legitimate organ, the labor union will have to transform itself drastically. Otherwise the union will become irrelevant.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Reflect on constructive ways labor unions can check the power of businesses, governments, and hospitals.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Frontiers of Management</span></p>
<a id="page343"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>