<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="a_27">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="january.xhtml#ba_27"><span class="color">27 January<br/> The Discipline of Management</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">If you can’t replicate something because you don’t understand it, then it really hasn’t been invented; it’s only been done.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">W</span></span>hen I published <span class="italic">The Practice of Management,</span> fifty years ago, that book made it possible for people to learn how to manage, something that up until then only a few geniuses seemed to be able to do, and nobody could replicate it.</p>
<p class="para">When I came into management, a lot of it had come out of the field of engineering. And a lot of it had come out of accounting. And some of it came out of psychology. And some more came out of labor relations. Each of those fields was considered separate, and each of them, by itself, was ineffectual. You can’t do carpentry, you know, if you have only a saw, or only a hammer, or if you have never heard of a pair of pliers. It’s when you put all of those tools into one kit that you invent. That’s what I did in large part in <span class="italic">The Practice of Management.</span> I made a discipline of it.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Are your management practices ad hoc or systematic?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Frontiers of Management</span></p>
<a id="page46"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>