<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_27">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_27"><span class="color">27 March<br/> Command or Partner</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The axiom that an enterprise should aim for maximum integration is obsolete.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he traditional axiom that an enterprise should aim for maximum integration is becoming obsolete in the new corporation. There are two explanations for the “disintegration” of the enterprise. First, knowledge has become increasingly specialized. Knowledge is therefore increasingly expensive, and also it is increasingly difficult to maintain enough critical mass for every major task within an enterprise. And because knowledge rapidly deteriorates unless it is used constantly, maintaining within an organization an activity that is used only intermittently guarantees incompetence.</p>
<p class="para">Second, by now the new information technologies—Internet and e-mail—have practically eliminated the physical costs of communication. This has meant that often the most productive and most profitable way to organize is to disintegrate and to partner. This is being extended to more and more activities. Outsourcing the management of an institution’s information technology, data processing, and computer system has become routine, for instance.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Think about whether you are about to be “disintegrated” out of a job by your employer outsourcing your function. Prepare a backup plan.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in the Next Society</span><br/><span class="italic">The Next Society</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page112"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>