<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="j_27">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="october.xhtml#bj_27"><span class="color">27 October<br/> Political Integration of Knowledge Workers</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Knowledge workers are, to coin a term, “uniclass.”</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he new majority, the “knowledge worker,” does not fit any interest-group definition. Knowledge workers are neither farmers nor labor nor business; they are employees of organizations. Yet they are not “proletarians” and do not feel “exploited” as a class. Collectively, they are “capitalists” through their pension funds. Many of them are themselves bosses and have “subordinates.” Yet they also have a boss themselves. They are not middle-class, either. They are, to coin a term, “uniclass”—though some of them make more money than others. It makes absolutely no difference to their social position whether they work for a business, a hospital, or a university. Knowledge workers who move from accounting work in a business to accounting work in a hospital are not changing social or economic position. They are changing a job.</p>
<p class="para">This status implies no specific economic or social culture. So far there is no political concept, no political integration that fits them.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Knowledge workers are capitalists in both the old and new senses. Do you see any political party addressing the interests of these new capitalists?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The New Realities</span></p>
<a id="page344"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>