<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_28">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_28"><span class="color">28 April<br/> The Ethics of Social Responsibility</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">What is business ethics? “It’s casuistry.”</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">W</span></span>hat is business ethics? “It’s casuistry,” the historian of Western philosophy would answer. Casuistry asserted that rulers, because of their responsibility, have to strike a balance between the ordinary demands of ethics that apply to them as individuals and their social responsibility to their kingdom. But this implies that the rules that decide what is ethical for ordinary people do not apply equally, if at all, to those with social responsibility. Ethics for them is instead a cost-benefit calculation involving the demands of individual conscience and the demands of position—and that means that the rulers are exempt from the demands of ethics, if only their behavior can be argued to confer benefits on other people.</p>
<p class="para">A great horror story of business ethics would, to the casuist, appear as an example of business virtue if not of unselfish business martyrdom. In the “electrical apparatus conspiracy” of the late 1950s, several high-ranking General Electric executives were sent to jail. They were found guilty of a criminal conspiracy in violation of antitrust because orders for heavy generating equipment, such as turbines, were parceled out among the three electrical apparatus manufacturers in the United States—General Electric, Westinghouse, and Allis Chalmers. The purpose of the cartel was the protection of the weakest and most dependent of the companies, Allis Chalmers. As soon as government action destroyed the cartel, Allis Chalmers had to go out of the turbine business and had to lay off several thousand people.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Document two decisions in your career where casuistry has been the basis of the ethics behind these decisions. What decisions <span class="italic">should</span> have been made in these cases?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Ecological Vision</span></p>
<a id="page147"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>