<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="e_28">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="may.xhtml#be_28"><span class="color">28 May<br/> Continuous Learning in Knowledge Work</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">A knowledge organization has to be both a learning organization and a teaching organization.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">K</span></span>nowledge workers must have continuous learning built into their tasks. And a knowledge organization has to be both a <span class="italic">learning organization</span> and a <span class="italic">teaching organization.</span> Knowledge today, in all areas, changes so fast that knowledge workers become obsolete pretty soon unless they build <span class="italic">continuous learning into their work.</span> And that is not just true of high knowledge such as that of the engineer, the chemist, the biologist, or the accountant. It’s increasingly just as true of the cardiac nurse, the person who handles payroll records, and the computer repair person. But also, a knowledge organization depends on knowledge specialists understanding what their colleagues are doing or trying to do. And each of them has a different specialty. Knowledge workers need, therefore, to hold themselves responsible for educating their colleagues, especially when the knowledge base of their own specialty changes.</p>
<p class="para">This means that knowledge workers are well advised to sit down and answer two questions:</p>
<ol class="ol-arabic">
<li>What do I need to learn to keep abreast of the knowledge I am being paid to know?</li>
<li>And what do my associates have to know and understand about my knowledge area and about what it can and should contribute to the organization and to their own work?</li>
</ol>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Answer the two questions at the end of this reading.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management Challenges for the 21st Century</span><br/><span class="italic">Knowledge Worker Productivity</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page179"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>