<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="h_29">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="august.xhtml#bh_29"><span class="color">29 August<br/> The Opportunity-Focused Organization</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Performing organizations enjoy what they’re doing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">O</span></span>rganizations have a gravity, the weight is constantly being pushed into being problem-focused, and one has to fight it all the time. Not very many organizations are good at what I call “exploitation of success.” Look at what is today the world’s largest consumer-electronics entertainment company: Sony. Basically, all Sony has ever done is run with the tape recorder and build on its success. But if you build that into the organization and demand it from everybody, then you create a receptivity for being opportunity-focused rather than problem-focused. And above all, you create enjoyment. I know this is not the academically respectable thing to say, but performing organizations enjoy what they’re doing. I’m always asked how I know what kind of an organization to accept as a client. When you walk through the door, you know in two minutes whether they enjoy it. And if they don’t enjoy it, then I’d rather not work for them. But if they like it and they feel that tomorrow is going to be better—that creates a totally different climate.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Do what you enjoy.</p>
<p class="chapterByline">“Meeting of the Minds,” <span class="italic">Across the Board: The Conference Board Magazine</span></p>
<a id="page280"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>