<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_29">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_29"><span class="color">29 July<br/> Cost Control in a Growth Business</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">How much business can we expect in this new company if we are successful? And how much front-end investment is then justified?</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>o grow a business one has to put in front-end money. That money is invested in tomorrow’s profit makers, so those front-end investments will only be costs and no returns, and sometimes for a long time. How does one manage those to maintain cost control? The first thing is to <span class="italic">budget</span> these activities separately. I call it the <span class="italic">opportunities budget.</span> The second rule, therefore, is to think through <span class="italic">what results we expect</span> from these investments in the future and within <span class="italic">what time period.</span></p>
<p class="para">The best example I know is how Citibank became the world’s only successful transnational bank in the heady 1970s and 1980s. The reason was that Citi first thought through how much front-end investment in a new branch could be justified. It thought through what the minimum results in the new territory could and should be. Citibank asked: “How much business can we expect in this new country if we are successful and become a market leader? And how much front-end investment is then justified assuming that the front-end investment must not exceed a certain percentage of the potential results?” And then Citi knew from its own experience how long it should take before this new branch should reach break-even, that is, before it should begin to produce profits.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Budget development projects separately. Develop most likely estimates of expected results. Monitor results and adjust expectations accordingly.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Permanent Cost Control</span> (Corpedia Online Program)<br/><span class="italic">Innovation and Entrepreneurship</span></p>
<a id="page246"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>