<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_2">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_2"><span class="color">2 April<br/> The Responsible Worker</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The responsible worker has a personal commitment to getting results.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">B</span></span>ut there also is the task of building and leading organizations in which every person sees <span class="italic">herself</span> as a “manager” and accepts the full burden of what is basically <span class="italic">managerial</span> responsibility: responsibility for her own job and work group, for her contribution to the performance and results of the entire organization, and for the social tasks of the work community.</p>
<p class="para">Responsibility, therefore, is both external and internal. Externally it implies accountability <span class="italic">to</span> some person or body and accountability <span class="italic">for</span> specific performance. Internally it implies commitment. The Responsible Worker is a worker who not only is accountable for specific results but also has authority to do whatever is necessary to produce these results and, finally, is committed to these results as a personal achievement.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Are you personally committed to getting results at work, or are you just going through the motions? Do you lack the authority to produce results? Either get it, or look for another job.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices</span><br/>(second paragraph from a letter to Jack Beatty; <span class="italic">The World According to Peter Drucker</span>)</p>
<a id="page121"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>