<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="e_2">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="may.xhtml#be_2"><span class="color">2 May<br/> The Network Society</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The developed countries are moving fast toward a</span> Network Society.</p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">F</span></span>or well over a hundred years, all developed countries were moving steadily toward an <span class="italic">employee society of organizations.</span> Now the developed countries, with the United States in the lead, are moving fast toward a <span class="italic">Network Society</span> in respect to the relationship between organizations and individuals who work for them, and in respect to the relationships between different organizations.</p>
<p class="para">Most adults in the U.S. labor force do work <span class="italic">for</span> an organization. But increasingly they are not <span class="italic">employees</span> of that organization. They are contractors, part-timers, temporaries. And relations between organizations are changing just as fast as the relations between organizations and the people who work for them. The most visible example is “outsourcing,” in which a company, a hospital, or a government agency turns over an entire activity to an independent firm that specializes in that kind of work. Even more important may be the trend toward <span class="italic">alliances.</span> Individual professionals and executives will have to learn that they must take responsibility for placing themselves. This means above all they must know their strengths <span class="italic">and</span> look upon themselves as “products” that have to be <span class="italic">marketed.</span></p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Make a list of the top ten reasons you are attractive as a partner in an alliance.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in a Time of Great Change</span></p>
<a id="page153"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>