<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_30">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_30"><span class="color">30 April<br/> Psychological Insecurity</span></a></h2>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Insecurity permeates the entire industrial situation.</span></p>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>nsecurity—not economic but psychological insecurity—permeates the entire industrial situation. It creates fear; and since it is fear of the unknown and the unpredictable, it leads to a search for scapegoats and culprits. Only if we restore the worker’s belief in the rationality and predictability of the forces that control his job, can we expect any policies in the industrial enterprise to be effective. In no other area can we hope to achieve so much so fast. All the basic forces—the objective requirements of society, the objective requirements of the enterprise, and the objective needs and requirements of the individual—work in the direction of making the industrial enterprise a functioning institution.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Set up a plan to stay on top of your knowledge area. If your employer cannot provide you with the training and experiences to maintain your employability, consider changing jobs.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The New Society</span></p>
<a id="page149"></a> 
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>