<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_30">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_30"><span class="color">30 March<br/> Nature of Complex Systems</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">In respect to short-term phenomena, there is no system. There is only chaos.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he fastest growing field of modern mathematics is the theory of complexity. It shows, with rigorous mathematical proof, that complex systems do not allow prediction; they are controlled by factors that are not statistically significant. This has become known as the “butterfly effect”: a whimsical but mathematically rigorous (and experimentally proven) theorem shows that a butterfly flapping its wings in the Amazon rain forest can and sometimes does control the weather in Chicago a few weeks or months later. In complex systems, the climate is predictable and has high stability; the “weather” is not predictable and is totally unstable. And no complex system can exclude anything as “external.” In respect to the weather, that is, in respect to short-term phenomena, there is no system. There is only chaos.</p>
<p class="para">Economics and economic policy deal with short-term phenomena. They deal with recessions and changes in prices. Contemporary economics and economic policy assume that the system, the long term, is made by short-term policies, for example, changes in interest rates, government spending, tax rates, and so on. For a complex system this is simply not true, as modern mathematics has now proven.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Identify the long-term phenomena affecting your organization. How will these affect your organization in both the short term and the long term?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The New Realities</span></p>
<a id="page115"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>