<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="a_31">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="january.xhtml#ba_31"><span class="color">31 January<br/> A Functioning Society</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Unless power is legitimate there can be no social order.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">A</span></span> functioning society must always be capable of organizing the tangible reality of the social order. It must master the material world, make it meaningful and comprehensible for the individual, and it must establish legitimate social and political power.</p>
<p class="para">No society can function unless it gives the individual member social status and function, and unless the decisive social power is legitimate power. The former establishes the basic frame of social life: the purpose and meaning of society. The latter shapes the space within the frame: it makes society concrete and creates its institutions. If the individual is not given social status and function, there can be no society but only a mass of social atoms flying through space without aim or purpose. And unless power is legitimate, there can be no social fabric; there is only a social vacuum held together by mere slavery or inertia.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> What will the emerging government in Iraq have to do to become legitimate? What must a legitimate government do to create status and function for Iraqis?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">A Functioning Society</span><br/><span class="italic">The Future of Industrial Man</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>