<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_3">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_3"><span class="color">3 April<br/> Spirit of Performance</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The purpose of an organization is to enable common men to do uncommon things.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">M</span></span>orality, to have any meaning at all, must not be exhortation, sermon, or good intentions. <span class="italic">It must be practices.</span> Specifically:</p>
<ol class="ol-arabic">
<li>The focus of the organization must be on <span class="italic">performance.</span> The first requirement of the spirit of performance is high performance standards, for the group as well as for each individual.</li>
<li>The focus of the organization must be on <span class="italic">opportunities</span> rather than on problems.</li>
<li>The decisions that affect <span class="italic">people</span>—their placement, pay, promotion, demotion, and severance—must express the values and beliefs of the organization.</li>
<li>Finally, in its people decisions, management must demonstrate that it realizes that <span class="italic">integrity</span> is one absolute requirement of any manager, the one quality that he has to bring with him and cannot be expected to acquire later on.</li>
</ol>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Focus on performance, opportunities, people, and integrity.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices</span></p>
<a id="page122"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>