<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="b_3">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="february.xhtml#bb_3"><span class="color">3 February<br/> The Management Revolution</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">What matters is the productivity of nonmanual workers.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>n 1881, an American, Frederick Winslow Taylor (1856–1915), first applied knowledge to the study of <span class="italic">work,</span> the analysis of work, and the engineering of work. This led to the <span class="italic">productivity revolution.</span> The Productivity Revolution has become a victim of its own success. From now on, what matters is the productivity of nonmanual workers. And that requires <span class="italic">applying knowledge to knowledge.</span></p>
<p class="para">But knowledge is now also being applied systematically and purposefully to define what new knowledge is needed, whether it is feasible, and what has to be done to make knowledge effective. It is being applied, in other words, to <span class="italic">systematic innovation.</span> This third change in the dynamics of knowledge can be called the Management Revolution. Supplying knowledge to find out how existing knowledge can best be applied to produce results is, in effect, what we mean by <span class="italic">management.</span></p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> What results are you being paid to achieve? List three tasks that you should eliminate to be productive.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Post-Capitalist Society</span></p>
<a id="page56"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>