<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_3">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_3"><span class="color">3 July<br/> Synergy of Business Assumptions</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Assumptions in all three areas have to fit one another.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he assumptions about environment, mission, and core competencies must fit one another. Marks and Spencer recognized that World War I had led to a new <span class="italic">environment</span>—masses of new buyers for good-quality, stylish, and inexpensive merchandise such as lingerie, blouses, and stockings. By the mid-twenties the four brothers-in-law who had built the penny bazaars into a major chain of variety stores might have been satisfied to enjoy their considerable wealth. Instead they decided to rethink the <span class="italic">mission</span> of their business. The business of Marks and Spencer, they decided, was not retailing. It was social revolution. From having been a successful variety chain, Marks and Spencer purposefully changed its mission into being a highly distinct “specialty” marketer. Finally, it went out and looked for the right manufacturers, whom it often had to help get started—for the existing old-line manufacturers were, for obvious reasons, none too eager to throw in their lot with the brash upstart who tried to tell them how to run their business—thus developing the <span class="italic">core competency</span> required by the new <span class="italic">environment and mission.</span></p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Does the mission of your enterprise fit the environment? Do your core competencies fit the mission?</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices</span><br/><span class="italic">Managing in a Time of Great Change</span></p>
<a id="page220"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>