<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="g_4">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="july.xhtml#bg_4"><span class="color">4 July<br/> Communicate and Test Assumptions</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The</span> theory of the business <span class="italic">is a discipline.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he theory of the business must be known and understood throughout the organization. This is easy in an organization’s early days. But as it becomes successful, an organization tends increasingly to take its theory for granted, becoming less and less conscious of it. Then the organization becomes sloppy. It begins to cut corners. It begins to pursue what is expedient rather than what is right. It stops thinking. It stops questioning. It remembers the answers but has forgotten the questions. The theory of the business becomes “culture.” But culture is no substitute for discipline, and the theory of the business is a discipline.</p>
<p class="para">The theory of the business has to be tested constantly. It is not graven on tablets of stone. It is a hypothesis. And it is a hypothesis about things that are in constant flux—society, markets, customers, technology. And so, built into the theory of the business must be the ability to change itself. Some theories are so powerful that they last for a long time. Eventually every theory becomes obsolete and then invalid. It happened to the GMs and the AT&amp;Ts. It happened to IBM. It is also happening to the rapidly unraveling Japanese <span class="italic">keiretsu.</span></p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Establish a forum in your organization for communicating, systematically monitoring, and testing your theory of your business.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in a Time of Great Change</span></p>
<a id="page221"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>