<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_4">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_4"><span class="color">4 March<br/> In Innovation, Emphasize the Big Idea</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Innovative ideas are like frogs’ eggs: of a thousand hatched, only one or two survive to maturity.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he innovative organization understands that innovation starts with an idea. Ideas are somewhat like babies—they are born small, immature, and shapeless. They are promise rather than fulfillment. In the innovative organization executives do not say, “This is a damn-fool idea.” Instead they ask, “What would be needed to make this embryonic, half-baked, foolish idea into something that makes sense, that is feasible, that is an opportunity for us?”</p>
<p class="para">But an innovative organization also knows that the great majority of ideas will turn out not to make sense. Executives in innovative organizations therefore demand that people with ideas think through the work needed to turn an idea into a product, a process, a business, or a technology. They ask, “What work should we have to do and what would we have to find out and learn before we can commit the company to this idea of yours?” These executives know that it is as difficult and risky to convert a small idea into successful reality as it is to make a major innovation. They do not aim at “improvements” or “modifications” in products or technology. They aim at innovating a new business.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Make a list of your three best ideas. Then make a list of the key pieces of information you need to know and the major work that needs to be done before these ideas can blossom into a new business. Now pursue the best idea, or if none is practical, start again.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Frontiers of Management</span></p>
<a id="page89"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>