<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="i_4">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="september.xhtml#bi_4"><span class="color">4 September<br/> Practices of Effective Executives</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">All that effective executives have in common is the ability to get the right things done.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he effective executives I have seen differ widely in their temperaments and abilities, in what they do and how they do it, in their personalities, their knowledge, their interests—in fact, in almost everything that distinguishes human beings. But all effective executives I’ve known perform only necessary tasks and eliminate unnecessary ones.</p>
<p class="para">Five practices have to be acquired to be effective. Effective executives know <span class="italic">where their time goes.</span> They work systematically at managing the little of their time that can be brought under their control. Effective executives focus on <span class="italic">outward contributions.</span> Effective executives <span class="italic">build on strengths</span>—theirs and others. They do not build on weaknesses. Effective executives <span class="italic">concentrate on superior performance</span> where superior performance will produce outstanding results. They force themselves to stay within priorities. Effective executives make <span class="italic">effective decisions.</span> They know that this is a system—the right steps in the right sequence. They know that to make decisions fast is to make the wrong decisions. Whenever I have found a person who—no matter how great in intelligence, industry, imagination, or knowledge—fails to observe these practices, I have also found an executive deficient in effectiveness.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Commit these five tasks to memory and practice them: know where your time goes; focus on outward contributions; build on strengths; concentrate on superior performance; and make effective decisions.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Effective Executive</span></p>
<a id="page289"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>