<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="d_5">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="april.xhtml#bd_5"><span class="color">5 April<br/> Picking a Leader</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">I always ask myself, would I want one of my sons to work under that person?</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">W</span></span>hat would I look for in picking a leader of an institution? First, I would look at what the candidates have done, what their strengths are. You can only perform with strength—and what have they done with it? Second, I would look at the institution and ask: “What is the one immediate key challenge?” I would try to match the strength with the needs.</p>
<p class="para">Then I would look for integrity. A leader sets an example, especially a strong leader. He or she is somebody on whom people, especially younger people, in the organization model themselves. Many years ago I learned from a very wise old man, who was the head of a very large, worldwide organization. He was in his late seventies, famous for putting the right people into the right enterprises, all over the globe. I asked him: “What do you look for?” And he said: “I always ask myself, would I want one of my sons to work under that person? If he is successful, then young people will imitate him. Would I want my son to look like this?” This, I think, is the ultimate question.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Next time you hire someone, ask yourself whether you would want your son or daughter to work for him or her.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing the Non-Profit Organization</span></p>
<a id="page124"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>