<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="a_5">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="january.xhtml#ba_5"><span class="color">5 January<br/> Abandonment</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">There is nothing as difficult and as expensive, but also nothing as futile, as trying to keep a corpse from stinking.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">E</span></span>ffective executives know that they have to get many things done effectively. Therefore, they concentrate. And the first rule for the concentration of executive efforts is to slough off the past that has ceased to be productive. The first-class resources, especially those scarce resources of human strength, are immediately pulled out and put to work on the opportunities of tomorrow. If leaders are unable to slough off yesterday, to abandon yesterday, they simply will not be able to create tomorrow.</p>
<p class="para">Without systematic and purposeful abandonment, an organization will be overtaken by events. It will squander its best resources on things it should never have been doing or should no longer do. As a result, it will lack the resources, especially capable people, needed to exploit the opportunities that arise. Far too few businesses are willing to slough off yesterday, and as a result, far too few have resources available for tomorrow.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Stop squandering resources on obsolete businesses and free up your capable people to take advantage of new opportunities.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Effective Executive</span><br/><span class="italic">Managing in Turbulent Times</span><br/><span class="italic">Managing in a Time of Great Change</span><br/><span class="italic">Management Challenges for the 21st Century</span></p>
<a id="page24"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>