<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="j_5">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="october.xhtml#bj_5"><span class="color">5 October<br/> Building Action into the Decision</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">A decision is only a hope until carrying it out has become somebody’s work assignment and responsibility, with a deadline.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">A</span></span> decision is a commitment to action. Until the right thing happens, there has been no decision. And one thing can be taken for granted: the people who have to take the action are rarely the people who have made the decision. No decision has, in fact, been made until carrying it out has become somebody’s work assignment and responsibility—and with a deadline. Until then, it’s still only a hope.</p>
<p class="para">A decision will not become effective unless needed actions have been built into it from the start. Converting a decision into action requires answering several questions:</p>
<ul class="bulletList">
<li>Who has to know of this decision?</li>
<li>What action has to be taken?</li>
<li>Who is to take it?</li>
<li>What does the action have to be so that the people who have to do it can do it?</li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent">The action must be appropriate to the capacities of the people who have to carry it out. This is especially important if people have to change their behavior, habits, or attitudes for the decision to become effective.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Think through a decision you have made. Who has to know of the decision? What action has to be taken? Who has to take the action? Make sure the people who have to take the action are able to do so.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Effective Executive</span><br/><span class="italic">The Elements of Decision Making</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page322"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>