<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_8">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_8"><span class="color">8 March<br/> Turbulence: Threat or Opportunity?</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">When it rains manna from heaven, some people put up an umbrella.</span></p>
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Others reach for a big spoon.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he manager will have to look at her task and ask, “What must I do to be prepared for danger, for opportunities, and above all for change?” First, this is a time to make sure that your organization is lean and can move fast. So this is a time when one systematically abandons and sloughs off unjustifiable products and activities—and sees to it that the really important tasks are adequately supported. Second, she will have to work on the most expensive of resources—<span class="italic">time</span>—particularly in areas where it is people’s <span class="italic">only</span> resource, as it is for highly paid, important groups such as research workers, technical service staffs, and all managers. And one must set goals for productivity improvement. Third, managers must learn to manage growth and to distinguish among kinds of growth. If productivity of your combined resources goes up with growth, it is healthy growth. Fourth, the development of people will be far more crucial in the years ahead.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Get rid of unjustifiable products and activities, set goals to improve productivity, manage growth, and develop your people.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The “How to” Drucker</span><br/><span class="italic">Managing in Turbulent Times</span></p>
<a id="page93"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>