<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="i_8">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="september.xhtml#bi_8"><span class="color">8 September<br/> Knowledge Worker as Effective Executive</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The executive who works at making strengths productive—his own as well as those of others—works at making organizational performance compatible with personal achievement.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">S</span></span>elf-development of the executive toward effectiveness is the only available answer to satisfy both the objective needs of society for performance by the organization, and the needs of the person for achievement and fulfillment. It is the only way in which organization goals and individual needs can come together. Executives who work at making strengths productive—his own as well as those of others—work at making organizational performance compatible with personal achievement. They work at making their knowledge area become organizational opportunity. And by focusing on contribution, they make their own values become organization results.</p>
<p class="para">Knowledge workers demand economic rewards too. Their absence is a deterrent. But their presence is not enough. They need opportunity; they need achievement; they need fulfillment; they need values. Only by making themselves into effective executives can knowledge workers obtain these satisfactions. Only executive effectiveness can enable society to harmonize its two needs: the needs of the organization to obtain from the individual the contribution it needs, and the need of the individuals to have the organization serve as their tool for the accomplishment of their purposes.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Know your strengths. Apply them to areas in your organization where you can make a contribution. Make sure your values and the values of the organization are compatible.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">The Effective Executive</span></p>
<a id="page293"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>