<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="a_9">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="january.xhtml#ba_9"><span class="color">9 January<br/> The New Corporation’s Persona</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">In the Next Society’s corporation, top management will be the company.</span></p>
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Everything else can be outsourced.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>ncreasingly, in the Next Society’s corporation, top management will, in fact, be the company. This top management’s responsibilities will cover the entire organization’s direction, planning, strategy, values, and principles; its structure and relationships between its various members; its alliances, partnerships, and joint ventures; and its research, design, and innovation.</p>
<p class="para">Establishing a new corporate persona calls for a change in the corporation’s values. And that may well be the most important task for top management. In the half century after the Second World War, the business corporation has brilliantly proven itself as an economic organization, as a creator of wealth and jobs. In the Next Society, the biggest challenge for the large company and especially for the multinational may be its social legitimacy—its values, its mission, its vision. Everything else can be outsourced.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Focus on your organization’s values, mission, and vision, and consider outsourcing everything else.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in the Next Society</span><br/><span class="italic">The Next Society</span> (Corpedia Online Program)</p>
<a id="page28"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>