<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="f_9">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="june.xhtml#bf_9"><span class="color">9 June<br/> Individual Development</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">The important thing is not that you have rank, but that you have</span> responsibility.</p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">T</span></span>he person with the most responsibility for an individual’s development is the person himself—not the boss. The first priority for one’s own development is to <span class="italic">strive for excellence.</span> Workmanship counts, not just because it makes such a difference in the quality of the job done, but because it makes such a difference in the person doing the job. Expect the job to provide stimulus only if you work on your own self-renewal, only if you create the excitement, the challenge, the transformation that makes an old job enriching over and over again. The most effective road to self-renewal is to look for the <span class="italic">unexpected success</span> and run with it.</p>
<p class="para">The critical factor for success is accountability—holding <span class="italic">yourself</span> accountable. Everything else flows from that. The important thing is not that you have rank, but that you have responsibility. To be accountable, you must take the job seriously enough to recognize: <span class="italic">I’ve got to grow up to the job.</span> By focusing on accountability, people take a bigger view of themselves.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Strive for excellence.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing the Non-Profit Organization</span></p>
<a id="page194"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>