<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="chapter" id="c_9">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="march.xhtml#bc_9"><span class="color">9 March<br/> Organize for Constant Change</span></a></h2>

</div>
<div class="chapterEpigraph">
<p class="chapterEpigraphText"><span class="italic">Today’s certainties always become tomorrow’s absurdities.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">O</span></span>ne thing is certain for developed countries—and probably for the entire world—we face long years of profound changes. An organization must be organized for constant change. It will no longer be possible to consider entrepreneurial innovation as lying outside of management or even as peripheral to management. Entrepreneurial innovation will have to become the very heart and core of management. The organization’s function <span class="italic">is</span> entrepreneurial, to <span class="italic">put knowledge to work</span>—on tools, products, and processes; on the design of work; on <span class="italic">knowledge itself.</span></p>
<p class="para">Deliberate emphasis on innovation may be needed most where technological changes are least spectacular. Everyone in a pharmaceutical company knows that the company’s survival depends on its ability to replace three quarters of its products by entirely new ones every ten years. But how many people in an insurance company realize that the company’s growth—perhaps even its survival—depends on the development of new forms of insurance? The less spectacular or prominent technological change is in a business, the greater the danger that the whole organization will ossify, and the more important, therefore, is the emphasis on innovation.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak"> </p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><small>ACTION POINT:</small> Are you and your organization in danger of ossification? Decide how you and your organization can systematically innovate, and build this into your management process.</p>
<p class="chapterByline"><span class="italic">Managing in a Time of Great Change</span><br/><span class="italic">The Practice of Management</span><br/><span class="italic">The Ecological Vision</span><br/><span class="italic">Management Challenges for the 21st Century</span></p>
<a id="page94"></a> 
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>