<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="frontMatterPage" id="fm_4">
<a id="page12"></a> 
<a id="page13"></a> 
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterTitle1"><a href="contents.xhtml#bfm_4"><span class="color">Introduction</span></a></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">I</span></span>n putting together <span class="italic">The Daily Drucker,</span> I have tried to distill and synthesize the “tapestry” that Peter Drucker has woven and continues to weave. I have done this by constructing 366 readings, each addressing a major topic, one for every day of the year, including February 29. Each reading starts with a topic and a “Drucker Proverb” or other quote capturing the essence of the topic. These proverbs, wise sayings, and quotes are mnemonic constructs that remind one of the teaching on each topic. Then follows a teaching taken directly from the works of Peter Drucker. Next comes the action step, where you are asked to “act on” the teaching and apply it to yourself and your organization.</p>
<p class="para">After each reading, the original source or sources from which the reading was excerpted are cited as references. Unless indicated otherwise, the page references provided in “Sources by Day” refer to the latest edition of each book. The status of each reference is contained in the “Annotated Bibliography,” at the end of the book. Most Drucker books referenced are in print, especially those referred to most often. If you wish to go deeper into a specific topic, you may.</p>
<p class="para">One word of advice: Look for “the future that has already happened.” If you can identify and act upon trends that are just now emerging, you will carry forward in practice the Drucker Tradition.</p>
<p class="para">I have many times listened to Peter Drucker address executives, and I have on a few occasions seen him in action as a consultant. In his teaching and consulting he has impressed me most by the consistency and effectiveness of the approach he uses. First, he always makes sure he has defined the problem correctly. Next, he seems to weave a tapestry, bringing his vast knowledge to bear upon the specific problem, and putting in “stitches,” or specific portions of the solution to the problem. Finally, once the problem has been circumscribed and the tapestry woven, he outlines the specific actions that should be taken to solve the problem. He then tells his audiences, “Don’t tell me you enjoyed this; tell me what you will do differently on Monday morning.”</p>
<p class="para">While his approach is consistent, any single Drucker book or article is<a id="page14"></a> different. By the time Peter Drucker has worked through the many drafts, out comes a systematic and insightful discussion of a major topic “in society” or “in management.” But, if one studies his many writings completed over the past sixty-five years, the same tapestry that I refer to as “The Tapestry of Drucker on Society and Management” is seen.</p>
<p class="para">Since graduating from college in 1962, I have been studying and using Drucker’s work. Even so, distilling and synthesizing Drucker’s work and giving thought to appropriate Action Points for each reading has been a transformative experience for me. It is my wish that the book also will be transformative for you.</p>
<p class="para">I am profoundly grateful to Peter Drucker for offering me an opportunity of a lifetime and for his advice and friendship over the years. Stephen Hanselman and Leah Spiro of HarperCollins have helped to turn this opportunity into a reality. Steve had the idea for <span class="italic">The Daily Drucker.</span> Leah Spiro provided detailed advice and support in writing the book. I am especially grateful for the help Leah provided in reviewing each reading and helping to draft the Action Points. Ceci Hunt copyedited the manuscript. I am grateful both for her skill and hard work. I also owe a debt of gratitude to Diane Aronson, copy chief, and to Knox Huston of HarperCollins for their help in preparing this book.</p>
<p class="para">In addition to the help provided by HarperCollins, I am grateful to Dean de Kluyver of the Peter F. Drucker and Masatoshi Ito Graduate School of Management and to Claremont Graduate University for the sabbatical leave that allowed me to concentrate my time exclusively on this project for most of the year. Antonina Antonova served as my research assistant and Bernadette Lambeth as my assistant during this period. Diane Wallace, of the Peter F. Drucker Archive, assisted me in preparing the Annotated Bibliography. I am grateful to Antonina, Bernadette, and Diane for their help.</p>
<p class="para">Finally, my wife, Judy, relieved me of all other responsibilities during this time and assisted me at every turn. It is hard to imagine a more loving wife.</p>
<p> </p>
<p class="para"><small>JOSEPH A. MACIARIELLO</small></p>
<p class="para">Claremont, California</p>
<p class="para">Summer 2004</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>