<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Daily Drucker</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="frontMatterPage" id="fm_3">
<a id="page11"></a> 
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterTitle1"><a href="contents.xhtml#bfm_3"><span class="color">Preface</span></a></h2>
</div>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><span class="chapterOpenerFirstLetters"><span class="bold">“W</span></span>hich of Peter Drucker’s books should I read?” “Where in your work do I find the best discussion on how to place people?” Not a week goes by without my receiving half a dozen questions like these. With thirty-four books published over sixty-five years, even I find it difficult to answer these questions.</p>
<p class="para"><span class="italic">The Daily Drucker</span> is intended to provide an answer. It presents in organized form—and directly from my own writings—a key statement of mine, followed by a few lines, also from my own works, of comment and explanation, on topics ranging across a great many fields of my work: management, business, and the world economy; a changing society; innovation and entrepreneurship; decision making; the changing workforce; the nonprofits and their management; and so on.</p>
<p class="para">But the most important part of this book is the blank spaces at the bottom of its pages. They are what the readers will contribute, their actions, decisions and the results of these decisions. <span class="italic">For this is an action book.</span></p>
<p class="para">This book owes everything to my longtime friend and colleague, Professor Joseph A. Maciariello. It was his idea to bring together in one volume the best excerpts from my writings. He then selected both the appropriate quotes and the commentaries on them from my books, scripts, and articles. The result is a truly comprehensive guide to executive effectiveness. My readers and I owe a very great debt of gratitude to Professor Maciariello.</p>
<p> </p>
<p class="para"><small>PETER F. DRUCKER</small></p>
<p class="para">Claremont, California</p>
<p class="para">Summer 2004</p>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>