<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous: Write Programs, Publish Gems, and Develop Sinatra Web Apps with Ruby</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780137844111.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2f" id="pref02"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_ix"></span>Preface</h2>
<p class="noindent"><em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em> teaches you to write practical and modern programs using the elegant and powerful Ruby programming language. You’ll learn how to use Ruby for both general-purpose programming and for beginning web-application development. Although mastering Ruby can be a long journey, you don’t have to learn everything to get started… you just have to learn enough to be <em>dangerous</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">You’ll begin by exploring the core concepts of Ruby programming using a combination of interactive Ruby and text files run at the command line. The result is a solid understanding of both <em>object-oriented programming</em> and <em>functional programming</em> in Ruby. You’ll then build on this foundation to develop and publish a simple self-contained Ruby package, or Ruby <em>gem</em>. You’ll then use this gem in a simple dynamic web application built using the <em>Sinatra</em> web framework, which you’ll also deploy to the live Web. As a result, <em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em> is especially appropriate as a prerequisite to the <em><a href="https://www.railstutorial.org/">Ruby on Rails Tutorial</a></em>, a bestselling web-development tutorial by the same author.</p>
<p class="indent">In addition to teaching you specific skills, <em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em> also helps you develop <em>technical sophistication</em>—the seemingly magical ability to solve practically any technical problem. Technical sophistication includes concrete skills like version control and coding, as well as fuzzier skills like Googling the error message and knowing when to just reboot the darn thing. Throughout <em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em>, we’ll have abundant opportunities to develop technical sophistication in the context of real-world examples.</p>
<h3 class="h3" id="sec101_1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_x"></span>Chapter by Chapter</h3>
<p class="noindent">In order to learn enough Ruby to be dangerous, we’ll begin at the beginning with a series of simple “<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%22Hello%2C_World!%22_program">hello, world</a>” programs using several different techniques (<a href="ch01.xhtml#ch01">Chapter 1</a>), including an introduction to <em>irb</em>, an interactive command-line program for evaluating Ruby code. In line with the Learn Enough philosophy of always doing things “for real”, even as early as <a href="ch01.xhtml#ch01">Chapter 1</a> we’ll deploy a (very simple) dynamic Ruby application to the live Web.</p>
<p class="indent">After mastering “hello, world”, we’ll take a tour of some Ruby <em>objects</em>, including strings (<a href="ch02.xhtml#ch02">Chapter 2</a>), arrays (<a href="ch03.xhtml#ch03">Chapter 3</a>), and other native objects like dates, hashes, and regular expressions (<a href="ch04.xhtml#ch04">Chapter 4</a>). Taken together, these chapters constitute a gentle introduction to <em>object-oriented programming</em> with Ruby.</p>
<p class="indent">In <a href="ch05.xhtml#ch05">Chapter 5</a>, we’ll learn the basics of <em>functions</em>, an essential subject for virtually every programming language. We’ll then apply this knowledge to an elegant and powerful style of coding known as <em>functional programming</em> (<a href="ch06.xhtml#ch06">Chapter 6</a>).</p>
<p class="indent">Having covered the basics of built-in Ruby objects, in <a href="ch07.xhtml#ch07">Chapter 7</a> we’ll learn how to make objects of our own. In particular, we’ll define an object for a <em>phrase</em>, and then develop a method for determining whether or not the phrase is a <em>palindrome</em> (the same read forward and backward).</p>
<p class="indent">Our initial palindrome implementation will be rather rudimentary, but we’ll extend it in <a href="ch08.xhtml#ch08">Chapter 8</a> using a powerful technique called <em>test-driven development</em> (TDD). In the process, we’ll learn more about testing generally, as well as how to create a <em>Ruby gem</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">In <a href="ch09.xhtml#ch09">Chapter 9</a>, we’ll learn how to write nontrivial <em>shell scripts</em>, one of Ruby’s biggest strengths. Examples include reading from both files and URLs, with a final example showing how to manipulate a downloaded file as if it were an HTML web page.</p>
<p class="indent">In <a href="ch10.xhtml#ch10">Chapter 10</a>, we’ll develop our first full Ruby web application: a site for detecting palindromes. This will give us a chance to learn about <em>routes</em>, <em>layouts</em>, <em>embedded Ruby</em>, and <em>form handling</em>, together with a second application of TDD. As a capstone to our work, we’ll deploy our palindrome detector to the live Web.</p>
<h3 class="h3" id="sec101_2"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xi"></span>Additional Features</h3>
<p class="noindent">In addition to the main tutorial material, <em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em> includes a large number of exercises to help you test your understanding and to extend the material in the main text. The exercises include frequent hints and often include the expected answers, with community solutions available by separate subscription at <a href="http://www.learnenough.com">www.learnenough.com</a>.</p>
<h3 class="h3" id="sec101_3">Final Thoughts</h3>
<p class="noindent"><em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em> gives you a practical introduction to the fundamentals of Ruby, both as a general-purpose programming language and as a web-development specialist. After learning the techniques covered in this tutorial, and especially after developing your technical sophistication, you’ll know everything you need to write shell scripts, publish Ruby gems, and deploy dynamic web applications with Ruby. You’ll also be ready for a huge variety of other resources, including books, blog posts, and online documentation. A particularly good next step is learning how to make dynamic database-backed web applications with the <em><a href="https://www.railstutorial.org/">Ruby on Rails Tutorial</a></em>.</p>
<h3 class="h3" id="sec101_4">Learn Enough Scholarships</h3>
<p class="noindent">Learn Enough is committed to making a technical education available to as wide a variety of people as possible. As part of this commitment, in 2016 we created the <a href="https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship">Learn Enough Scholarship program</a>.<sup><a id="pref02fn1" href="pref02.xhtml#pref02fn1a">1</a></sup> Scholarship recipients get free or deeply discounted access to the Learn Enough All Access subscription, which includes all of the Learn Enough online book content, embedded videos, exercises, and community exercise answers.</p>
<p class="footnote"><sup><a id="pref02fn1a" href="pref02.xhtml#pref02fn1">1</a></sup><a href="https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship">https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship</a></p>
<p class="indent">As noted in a <a href="https://youtu.be/AI5wmnzzBqc?t=1076">2019 RailsConf Lightning Talk</a>,<sup><a id="pref02fn2" href="pref02.xhtml#pref02fn2a">2</a></sup> the Learn Enough Scholarship application process is incredibly simple: just fill out a confidential text <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xii"></span>area telling us a little about your situation. The scholarship criteria are generous and flexible—we understand that there are an enormous number of reasons for wanting a scholarship, from being a student, to being between jobs, to living in a country with an unfavorable exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Chances are that, if you feel like you’ve got a good reason, we’ll think so, too.</p>
<p class="footnote"><sup><a id="pref02fn2a" href="pref02.xhtml#pref02fn2">2</a></sup><a href="https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship-talk">https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship-talk</a></p>
<p class="indent">So far, Learn Enough has awarded more than 2,500 scholarships to aspiring developers around the country and around the world. To apply, visit the Learn Enough Scholarship page at <a href="http://www.learnenough.com/scholarship">www.learnenough.com/scholarship</a>. Maybe the next scholarship recipient could be you!</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>