<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Entrepreneurial Finance, Fourth Edition: Finance and Business Strategies for the Serious Entrepreneur, 4th Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="1260461440.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<span id="page_xx" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>
<h2 class="h2-n"><span id="page_1" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>1</h2>
<h2 class="h2-h">FAQs on Entrepreneurship Television Shows</h2>
<p class="noindent"><span class="dropcap">I</span>n 2018, there were at least 15 shows on television about entrepreneurship. The shows included comedy (<em>Silicon Valley</em>), food (<em>Restaurant Startup</em>), Technology (<em>Tech Stars</em>), turnarounds (<em>The Profit</em>), manufacturing (<em>How It’s Made</em>), and finance (<em>Dragon’s Den</em>). The show that best addresses the primary topic of this book, entrepreneurial finance, is <em>Shark Tank</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">Here are a “Baker’s dozen” (13) of the most common finance-related questions asked of entrepreneurs by investors on television shows. Comprehensive, detailed explanation of how to answer these questions is located throughout the chapters of the book. <a href="ch14.xhtml">Chapter 14</a> will give you the straight, simple answers to these questions in a “CliffsNotes” version, and will identify the chapter where more information can be found on each topic. I am certain that if you thoroughly read this book you will be well armed to successfully answer all of the following questions without the answer sheet.</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 1:</strong> How much money do you need?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 2:</strong> What is the value of your company if you want an investment of $250,000 for 7% of equity in your company?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 3:</strong> Is the $3,571,428 valuation a premoney or postmoney valuation?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><span id="page_2" epub:type="pagebreak"></span><strong>Question 4:</strong> Your valuation is crazy! How can you justify that high valuation?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 5:</strong> What is your company’s EBITDA?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 6:</strong> Do you want debt or equity financing?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 7:</strong> Who would you rather have as an investor, him or me?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 8:</strong> What are the company’s gross margins?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 9:</strong> Does your company have a subscription model?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 10:</strong> What is the company’s burn rate?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 11:</strong> What is the company’s customer acquisition cost?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 12:</strong> How do I get my money back?</p>
<p class="indent-i"><strong>Question 13:</strong> Why should I invest in you?</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>