<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Entrepreneurial Finance, Fourth Edition: Finance and Business Strategies for the Serious Entrepreneur, 4th Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="1260461440.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">Notes<span id="page_337" epub:type="pagebreak"></span></h2>
<p class="note-h">Preface</p>
<p class="note"><a id="pre-note1" href="preface.xhtml#rpre-note1">1.</a> Klancy Miller, “Overlooked No More: Georgia Gilmore Who Fed and Funded the Montgomery Bus Boycott,” <em>New York Times</em>, July 31, 2019.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 2</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note1" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note1">1.</a> Marsha Kelly, “New Business Failure Percentage Rates—SBA Statistics,” <em>Medium</em>, February 24, 2018.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note2" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note2">2.</a> <em>Black Enterprise</em>, December 1997.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note3" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note3">3.</a> “Failure Rate of New Products Is 65%,” <em>International Manufacturing Review</em>, July 1, 1999.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note4" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note4">4.</a> Kevin J. Clancey and Peter C. Krieg, “Surviving Innovation,” <em>Marketing Management</em>, March/April 2003.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note5" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note5">5.</a> Hisrish and Brush survey, 1988.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note6" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note6">6.</a> Dun &amp; Bradstreet, <em>Crain’s Small Business</em>, February 1997.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note7" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note7">7.</a> Darren Dahl, “Top Companies Started During a Recession,” <em>HuffPost</em>, August 11, 2011.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note8" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note8">8.</a> Del Jones, “Optimism About Economy Astounds Experts,” <em>USA Today</em>, March 24, 1998.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch02note9" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note9">9.</a> Steve Mariotti, <em>The Young Entrepreneur’s Guide to Starting and Running a Business</em>, New York Times Books, 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note10" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note10">10.</a> Otis Port, “Starting Up Again—and Again and Again,” <em>BusinessWeek</em>, August 25, 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note11" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note11">11.</a> <em>New York Times</em>, September 23, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note12" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note12">12.</a> <em>Fast Company</em>, February/March 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note13" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note13">13.</a> <em>Success</em>, May 27, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note14" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note14">14.</a> Grace Reader, “Around 550,000 People Become Entrepreneurs Every Month,” <em>Entrepreneur</em>, August 4, 2016.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note15" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note15">15.</a> Harris Survey, 2002.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note16" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note16">16.</a> Robert A. Mamis<span id="page_338" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>, <em>Inc</em>., March 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note17" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note17">17.</a> Jack Bishop Jr., PhD.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note18" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note18">18.</a> “Mapping the Entrepreneurial Psyche,” <em>Inc.,</em> August 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note19" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note19">19.</a> Junior Achievement Poll on Teens and Entrepreneurship, August 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note20" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note20">20.</a> Dara Kerr, “Uber, Lyft, IPOs to Mint Next Batch of Bay Area Millionaires,” <em>CNET</em>, December 24, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note21" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note21">21.</a> “Has Microsoft created 3 billionaires and an estimated 12,000 millionaires?” <em>Quora</em>, January 18, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note22" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note22">22.</a> Paul Maidment, <em>Forbes</em>, September 27, 2005.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note23" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note23">23.</a> Roper Starch Worldwide, “Risk and Reward: A Study of the Company Builders Who Are Changing the Face of American Business<span id="page_339" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>,” <em>Inc.</em>, 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note24" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note24">24.</a> <em>Harvard Business Review</em>, November/December 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note25" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note25">25.</a> James P. Cain, U.S. ambassador to Denmark, Speech to Børsen Executive Club, September 28, 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note26" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note26">26.</a> Roper Starch Worldwide, “Risk and Reward.”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note27" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note27">27.</a> Council on Competitiveness, “Where America Stands: Entrepreneurship,” February 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note28" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note28">28.</a> National Venture Capital Association, “Venture Capital, Without the Risk.”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note29" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note29">29.</a> <em>Inc.</em>, March 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note30" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note30">30.</a> Council on Competitiveness, “Where America Stands.”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note31" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note31">31.</a> Jerome Katz, “2004 Survey of Endowed Positions in Entrepreneurship and Related Fields in the United States,” SSRN Electronic Journal, 2004.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note32" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note32">32.</a> Donald Kuratko, “The Emergence of Entrepreneurship Education,” September 2005.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note33" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note33">33.</a> Jerome Katz, “List of Colleges with Majors in Entrepreneurship or Small Business,” Entrepreneurship Education Resources, Saint Louis University, 2018, <a href="https://sites.google.com/a/slu.edu/eweb/list-of-colleges-with-majors-in-entrepreneurship-or-small-business">https://sites.google.com/a/slu.edu/eweb/list-of-colleges-with-majors-in-entrepreneurship-or-small-business</a>.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note34" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note34">34.</a> “Can Entrepreneurship Be Taught?” <em>Fortune Small Business</em>, March 10, 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note35" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note35">35.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note36" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note36">36.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note37" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note37">37.</a> IT Industry Outlook 2020 Report, CompTIA, November 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note38" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note38">38.</a> Kimberly Amadeo, “Silicon Valley, America’s Innovative Advantage,” <em>The Balance</em>, August 24, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note39" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note39">39.</a> Jeanne Dugan, “Portrait of an Entrepreneur,” <em>BusinessWeek/Enterprise</em>.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note40" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note40">40.</a> Grace Mirabella, “Beauty Queen: Estee Lauder,” <em>Time</em>, December 7, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note41" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note41">41.</a> Tom Stemberg, <em>Staples for Success.</em></p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note42" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note42">42.</a> Morton I. Kamien, “Entrepreneurship: What Is It?” <em>BusinessWeek Executive Briefing Service</em>, 1994.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note43" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note43">43.</a> Paul Verrochi, “The Quotable Entrepreneur,” <em>Inc.</em>, December 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note44" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note44">44.</a> “The Secrets of Serial Success,” <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, August 20, 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note45" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note45">45.</a> <em>USA Today</em>, April 23, 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note46" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note46">46.</a> <em>Inc.</em>, December 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note47" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note47">47.</a> <em>Business 2.0</em>, April 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note48" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note48">48.</a> Timothy Aeppel, “Losing Faith: Personnel Disorders Sap a Factory Owner of His Early Idealism,” <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, September 27, 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note49" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note49">49.</a> Staples Survey.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note50" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note50">50.</a> KRC Research, <em>MasterCard Global Small Business Survey</em>, December 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note51" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note51">51.</a> Anne Murphy, “Analysis of the 2000 Inc. 500,” <em>Inc.</em>, September 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note52" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note52">52.</a> Kenichi Ottmae, “Guru of Gadgets: Akio Morita,” <em>Time</em>, December 7, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note53" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note53">53.</a> Cognetics Consulting, October 17, 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note54" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note54">54.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note55" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note55">55.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note56" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note56">56.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note57" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note57">57.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note58" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note58">58.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note59" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note59">59.</a> Norm Brodsky with Bo Burningham, “Necessary Losses,” <em>Inc.</em>, December 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note60" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note60">60.</a> Philip Elmer DeWitt, “Steve Jobs: Apple’s Anti-Gates,” <em>Time</em>, December 7, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note61" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note61">61.</a> Unless otherwise stated, small businesses are defined as firms with fewer than 500 employees.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note62" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note62">62.</a> “Owning the Airwaves,” <em>Essence</em>, October 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note63" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note63">63.</a> <em>Crain’s Chicago Business</em>, January 24, 1994.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note64" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note64">64.</a> Janet Attard, “How Much Do Small Businesses Really Earn?” <em>Business Know-How</em>, September 26, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note65" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note65">65.</a> Nan Langowitz, “The Myths and Realities About Women Entrepreneurs,” <em>Babson Alumni Magazine</em>, Winter 2004; <em>LA Times</em>, June 2, 2001.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note66" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note66">66.</a> Jeff Jeffrey, “Minority-Owned Companies Driving Growth Among U.S. Businesses, Survey Says” <em>Biz Journals</em>, September 26, 2017.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note67" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note67">67.</a> John Greenwald, “Master of the Mainframe: Thomas Watson Jr.,” <em>Time</em>, December 7, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note68" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note68">68.</a> Franchise Economy, <em>IFA</em>, April 10, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note69" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note69">69.</a> Dunkin’ Donuts, “Company Snapshot,” <em>Entrepreneur</em>, April 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note70" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note70">70.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note71" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note71">71.</a> Kerry Pipes, “History of Franchising: This Business Model Is an Original—and a Winner,” <em>Franchising,</em> March 25, 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note72" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note72">72.</a> “Answers to the 21 Most Commonly Asked Questions About Franchising,” <em>International Franchise Association</em>, October 22, 2001.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note73" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note73">73.</a> Franchise Economy, <em>IFA</em>, April 10, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note74" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note74">74.</a> International Franchise Association, “Frequently Asked Questions About Franchising, Question 14.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note75" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note75">75.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note76" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note76">76.</a> Kristen Dunlop Godsey, “Market like Mad: How One Man Built a McDonald’s Franchise Empire,” <em>Success</em>, February 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note77" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note77">77.</a> “Number of International and<span id="page_340" epub:type="pagebreak"></span> United States Starbucks Stores from 2005 to 2018,” <em>Statista</em>, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note78" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note78">78.</a> Sara Gilgore, “Radio One Changes Name to Reflect Identity as ‘multimedia entity’,” <em>Biz Journals</em>, November 4, 2016.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note79" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note79">79.</a> Duncan Maxwell Andersen and Michael Warshaw, with Mari-Alyssa Mulvihill, “The #1 Entrepreneur in America: Blockbuster Video’s Wayne Huizenga,” <em>Success</em>, March 1995.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note80" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note80">80.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note81" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note81">81.</a> “Wayne Huizenga,” video, University of Southern California.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note82" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note82">82.</a> Huizenga: Deceased, <em>Forbes</em>, March 6, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note83" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note83">83.</a> David Gelernter, “Software Strongman: Bill Gates,” <em>Time</em>, December 7, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note84" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note84">84.</a> Luisa Kroll and Kerry A. Dolan, “Billionaires: The Richest People in the World,” <em>Forbes</em>, March 5, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note85" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note85">85.</a> Microsoft Investor Relations, “Acquisition History,” <em>Microsoft</em>, August 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note86" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note86">86.</a> Microsoft News Center, “Microsoft to Acquire Yammer,” June 25, 2012.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note87" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note87">87.</a> Microsoft Corporation Financial Statements, <em>Yahoo! Finance</em>, “Balance Sheet, Total Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Short-Term Investments.”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note88" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note88">88.</a> “Microsoft Completes GitHub Acquisition,” Microsoft Corporate Blogs, October 26, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note89" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note89">89.</a> “Top Entrepreneurs of 1999,” <em>BusinessWeek</em>, January 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note90" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note90">90.</a> COACH, INC. Completes Acquisition of Kate Spade &amp; Company, COACH INC. Press Release, July 11, 2017.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch02note91" href="ch02.xhtml#rch02note91">91.</a> Terri Roberson, “The Partners Behind the Day Spa Explosion,” <em>Today’s Chicago Woman</em>, December 1998.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 3</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch03note1" href="ch03.xhtml#rch03note1">1.</a> Jamie Pratt, <em>Financial Accounting</em>, 2nd ed., Cincinnati, OH: South-Western Publishing Co., 1994.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch03note2" href="ch03.xhtml#rch03note2">2.</a> Steve Eder and Megan Twohey, “Donald Trump Acknowledges Not Paying Federal Income Taxes for Years,” <em>New York Times</em>, October 10, 2016.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch03note3" href="ch03.xhtml#rch03note3">3.</a> Kathleen Morris, “No Laughing Gas Matter—A Dental-Tech Startup May Have Hyped Its Numbers,” <em>BusinessWeek</em>, June 9, 1998.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch03note4" href="ch03.xhtml#rch03note4">4.</a> Stanford Law School, Securities Class Action Clearinghouse.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch03note5" href="ch03.xhtml#rch03note5">5.</a> Publication 334 (2018), Tax Guide for Small Business, IRS, January 2018.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch03note6" href="ch03.xhtml#rch03note6">6.</a> Publication 538 (2019), Accounting Periods and Methods, IRS, January 2019.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch03note7" href="ch03.xhtml#rch03note7">7.</a> Laurie Cohen and Andrew Martin, “Theater Plan Not Living Up to Billing,” <em>Chicago Tribune</em>, January 15, 1999.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 4</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note1" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note1">1.</a> Jamie Pratt, <em>Financial Accounting</em>, 2nd ed., Cincinnati, OH: South-Western Publishing Co., 1994.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note2" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note2">2.</a> Brandon Gaille, “27 Jaw Dropping Employee Theft Statistics,” <em>Brandon Gaille Small Business &amp; Marketing Advice</em>, May 25, 2017.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note3" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note3">3.</a> <em>Chicago Tribune</em><span id="page_341" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>, July 25, 2000.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note4" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note4">4.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note5" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note5">5.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note6" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note6">6.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note7" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note7">7.</a> Hans Greimel, “Japan’s Plants Hum, But Hurdles Remain,” <em>Automotive News</em>, October 10, 2011.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note8" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note8">8.</a> Amazon, Inc.10-K Report, 2012.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch04note9" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note9">9.</a> “What’s Wrong with This Picture? Nothing!” <em>Inc.</em>, June 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note10" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note10">10.</a> Current US Inflation Rates: 2009–2019, US Inflation Center, May 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note11" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note11">11.</a> Russell Scibetti, Interactive Analysis of Fan Cost Index, February 14, 2017.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note12" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note12">12.</a> “A Profit Gusher of Epic Proportions,” <em>Fortune</em>, April 15, 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note13" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note13">13.</a> Eric Nee, “Defending the Desktop,” <em>Forbes</em>, December 28, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note14" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note14">14.</a> Richard Murphy, “Michael Dell,” <em>Success.</em></p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note15" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note15">15.</a> John Anderson, “The Company That Grew Too Fast,” <em>Inc.</em>, November 2005.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note16" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note16">16.</a> Howard Schultz, e-mail to senior Starbucks management, February 14, 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note17" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note17">17.</a> CIT Commercial Services and <em>Home Furnishing News</em>, 2002 Customer Concentration Survey.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note18" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note18">18.</a> <em>Boston Business Journal</em>, June 18, 2004.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note19" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note19">19.</a> <em>Boston Herald</em>, June 12, 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note20" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note20">20.</a> “Toyota Regains Worldwide Sales Crown,” <em>Motor Trend</em>, 2012.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note21" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note21">21.</a> Hoovers Online (Toyota, GM), 2012.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note22" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note22">22.</a> “In Praise of Third Place,” <em>New Yorker</em>, December 4, 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note23" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note23">23.</a> Nintendo Co., Ltd. Income Statements, Hoovers Online, 2014.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note24" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note24">24.</a> Hermann Simon, Frank F. Bilstein, and Frank Luby, <em>Manage for Profit, Not for Market Share: A Guide to Greater Profits in Highly Contested Markets</em>, Harvard Business Press, 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note25" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note25">25.</a> Hoovers Online, Industry Financials, 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note26" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note26">26.</a> Bruce Horovitz, “Big Markups Drive Starbucks’ Growth,” <em>USA Today</em>, April 30, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note27" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note27">27.</a> Scott Woolley, “Greedy Bosses,” <em>Forbes</em>, August 24, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note28" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note28">28.</a> Mid-Atlantic Venture Partners, 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note29" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note29">29.</a> Shawn Rea, “Buy the Book,” <em>Black Enterprise</em>, February 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note30" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note30">30.</a> Rosemary Batt, Virginia Doellgast, Hyunji Kwon, “U.S. Call Center Industry Report 2004, National Benchmarking Report, Strategy, HR Practices &amp; Performance,” School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Cornell University.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note31" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note31">31.</a> Sean Williams, “ The Cost to Obtain Health Insurance Through Your Employer Is Soaring—Here Are the Real Reasons Why,” The Motley Fool, November 2015.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note32" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note32">32.</a> Alex Gove, “Margin of Error,” <em>Red Herring</em>, February 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note33" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note33">33.</a> John Butters, “S&amp;P 500 Reporting Second Highest Net Profit Margin in 10 Years,” <em>Insight</em>, October 15, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note34" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note34">34.</a> Thor Valdmanis, “Cooking the Books, a Common Trick of the Trade,” <em>USA Today</em>, August 11, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note35" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note35">35.</a> “The Fall of Enron<span id="page_342" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>,” <em>NPR</em>, February 12, 2002.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note36" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note36">36.</a> “From Collapse to Convictions: A Timeline,” <em>CBS News Online</em>, October 23, 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch04note37" href="ch04.xhtml#rch04note37">37.</a> “The Fear of All Sums,” <em>CFO</em>, August 1, 2002.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 5</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note1" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note1">1.</a> Jill Andresky Fraser, “Riding the Economic Rollercoaster,” <em>Inc.</em>, December 1998.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note2" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note2">2.</a> Michael Fernandez, “My Big Mistake,” <em>Inc.</em>, December 1998.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note3" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note3">3.</a> “Running on Empty,” <em>Inc.</em>, August 1, 1994.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note4" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note4">4.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note5" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note5">5.</a> Fraser, “Riding the Economic Rollercoaster.”</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note6" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note6">6.</a> Gini Graham Scott and John J. Harrison, <em>Collection Techniques for a Small Business</em>, Grants Pass, OR: Oasis Press, 1994.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note7" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note7">7.</a> U.K. Survey of Small Businesses, 2005.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note8" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note8">8.</a> Dr. Craig R. Everett, Pepperdine Private Capital Markets Project: Capital Markets Report: 2014.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch05note9" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note9">9.</a> Small Business Problems and Priorities, NFIB Research Foundation, August 2016.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note10" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note10">10.</a> Jill Andresky Fraser, “Getting Paid,” <em>Inc.</em>, June 1990.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note11" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note11">11.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note12" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note12">12.</a> <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, October 25, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note13" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note13">13.</a> Euler Hermes North America Insurance Company homepage, Allianz USA.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note14" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note14">14.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note15" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note15">15.</a> Jill Andresky Fraser, “Collection: Days Saved, Thousands Earned,” <em>Inc.</em>, November 1995.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note16" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note16">16.</a> Jay Goltz, <em>The Street Smart Entrepreneur</em>, Addicus Books, February 1, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note17" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note17">17.</a> Amazon 2012 10K.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note18" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note18">18.</a> Dell company financials as compiled by Hoovers, July 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch05note19" href="ch05.xhtml#rch05note19">19.</a> Skip Grandt, interview with author.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 6</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note1" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note1">1.</a> Julie Schmidt, “Apple: To Be or Not to Be Operating System Is the Question,” <em>USA Today</em>, September 24, 1996.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note2" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note2">2.</a> Thomas G. Stemberg, <em>Staples for Success: From Business Plan to Billion-Dollar Business in Just a Decade</em>, Santa Monica, CA: Knowledge Exchange, 1996.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note3" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note3">3.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note4" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note4">4.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note5" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note5">5.</a> <em>Chicago Tribune</em>, April 7, 2007.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note6" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note6">6.</a> David Roeder, “Zell, Other Ex-Trib Bosses Settle Charges for $200 Million,” <em>Chicago Sun Times</em>, June 11, 2019.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note7" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note7">7.</a> Stemberg, “Staples for Success.”</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note8" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note8">8.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch06note9" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note9">9.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note10" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note10">10.</a> “Total Private Equity Buyout<span id="page_343" epub:type="pagebreak"></span> Value Jumps 10 Percent to $582 Billion, Capping the Strongest Five-Year Run in the Industry’s History,” <em>Bain &amp; Company</em>, February 25, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note11" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note11">11.</a> “Private Equity GPs Sitting on More Cash Than Ever,” Bain &amp; Co. 10th annual Global Private Equity Report, March 7, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note12" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note12">12.</a> <em>Forbes</em>, July 27, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note13" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note13">13.</a> Stephanie Gruner, “The Trouble with Angels,” <em>Inc.</em>, February 1, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note14" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note14">14.</a> Bill Sutter, classroom presentation at Kellogg School of Management, March 10, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note15" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note15">15.</a> <em>Crain’s Chicago Business</em>, May 5, 2008.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note16" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note16">16.</a> Jeanne Dugan, “Will Triarc Make Snapple Crackle?” <em>BusinessWeek</em>, April 28, 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note17" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note17">17.</a> <em>Chicago Sun-Times</em>, July 7, 2008.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note18" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note18">18.</a> Thomas Kenny, “The Returns of Short, Intermediate, and Long Term Bonds,” <em>The Balance</em>, February 4, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note19" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note19">19.</a> Dow Jones Industrial Average Fact Sheet.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note20" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note20">20.</a> Current S&amp;P 500 PE Ratio: 19.37 + 0.03 (0.13%), October 28, 2010, Mean: 15.50.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note21" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note21">21.</a> Census databases.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note22" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note22">22.</a> Pawn Industry Statistics, National Pawnbrokers Association, February 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note23" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note23">23.</a> <em>Newsletter of Corporate Renewal</em>, February 14, 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note24" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note24">24.</a> Tim Jones, “Rich Harvests in Television’s Killing Fields,” <em>Chicago Tribune</em>, October 22, 1995.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note25" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note25">25.</a> Brian Edwards and Mary Ann Sabo, “A Grim Tale,” <em>Chicago Tribune</em>, October 29, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note26" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note26">26.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note27" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note27">27.</a> EBITDA Multiples by Industry: Funeral Services, <em>Equidam</em>, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note28" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note28">28.</a> <em>Crain’s Chicago Business</em>, September 27, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note29" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note29">29.</a> <em>Forbes</em>, July 27, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note30" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note30">30.</a> “Jubak’s Journal: Putting a Price on the Future,” <em>Forbes</em>.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note31" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note31">31.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note32" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note32">32.</a> Robert McGough, “No Earnings? No Problem! Price-Sales Ratio Use Rises,” <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, November 26, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note33" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note33">33.</a> S&amp;P MidCap 400 Index - Total Return Historical - 1991 - USD Chart Builder” Market cap/Total Revenues, 1/1/1995–12/31/2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note34" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note34">34.</a> Matt Krantz, “Web Site Revenue May Not Be Cash,” <em>USA Today</em>, September 9, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch06note35" href="ch06.xhtml#rch06note35">35.</a> Matt Krantz, “Vague Rules Let Net Firms Inflate Revenue,” <em>USA Today</em>, November 22, 1999.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 7</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note1" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note1">1.</a> <em>Chicago Sun-Times</em>, April 4, 1996.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note2" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note2">2.</a> <em>Business Philadelphia</em> magazine, November 1996.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note3" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note3">3.</a> Global Entrepreneurship Monitor<span id="page_344" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>, “2006 Financing Report.”</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note4" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note4">4.</a> Sammy Adbullah, “How Many Rounds of Funding Do Companies Raise Before Exiting?” <em>Crunch Base</em>, January 17, 2019.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note5" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note5">5.</a> Statistic Brain, “Startup Business Failure Rate by Industry,” September 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note6" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note6">6.</a> Starbucks Company history, <em>Hoovers</em>, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note7" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note7">7.</a> Sammy Abdullah, “The Story of Benchmark, the Greatest VC ever,” <em>Medium</em>, April 11, 2018.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note8" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note8">8.</a> <em>New Yorker</em>, August 11, 1997.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch07note9" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note9">9.</a> Pepperdine University, Center for Applied Research, Private Capital Markets Project, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch07note10" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note10">10.</a> Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, 2012 United States Report.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch07note11" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note11">11.</a> Larry Kim, “5 Things to Know About Venture Capital’s Recent Record-Breaking Growth,” <em>Inc.</em>, February 12, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch07note12" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note12">12.</a> NVCA Yearbook 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch07note13" href="ch07.xhtml#rch07note13">13.</a> Pepperdine University, Center for Applied Research, Private Capital Markets Project, 2014.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 8</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note1" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note1">1.</a> <em>Time</em>, January 13, 1997.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note2" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note2">2.</a> “Microsoft Cash and ST Investments,” Yahoo! Finance, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note3" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note3">3.</a> Noah Kulwin, “Airbnb Just Raised $1 Billion in Debt Financing Because It Can,” <em>VOX</em>, June 15, 2016.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note4" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note4">4.</a> “Small Business Lending in the United States 2016,” U.S. Small Business Administration.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note5" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note5">5.</a> Pepperdine Private Capital Markets Survey, 2012.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note6" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note6">6.</a> Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, United States Report, 2012.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note7" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note7">7.</a> E&amp;J Gallo Winery Company Profile, <em>Hoovers</em>, July 2016.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note8" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note8">8.</a> Andrew J. Sherman, “Raising Money in Tough Times: An Entrepreneur’s Guide to Bootstrapping,” January 1, 2003.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch08note9" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note9">9.</a> “FAQs for Angels &amp; Entrepreneurs,” Angel Capital Association, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note10" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note10">10.</a> Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, “Business Angel Investing Groups Growing in North America,” October 2002.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note11" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note11">11.</a> Angel Resource Institute, “Angel Capital Association,” 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note12" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note12">12.</a> <em>Crain’s Chicago Business</em>, November 6, 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note13" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note13">13.</a> Steven Lawrence, “Doing Good with Foundation Assets,” <em>Foundation Center</em>, 2010.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note14" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note14">14.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note15" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note15">15.</a> Jennifer Tingley, “Program-Related Investments Can Boost the Impact of Foundation Dollars,” <em>CLA Connect</em>, July 11, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note16" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note16">16.</a> Small Business Resource Guide Summer National Edition, U.S. Small Business Administration, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note17" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note17">17.</a> Milken Institute, Los Angeles Economy Project, Section 6, October 2005.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note18" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note18">18.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note19" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note19">19.</a> SBA Loan Report as of<span id="page_345" epub:type="pagebreak"></span> May 2019, <a href="http://sba.gov">sba.gov</a>.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note20" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note20">20.</a> Small Business Administration, “SBA Lending Statistics for Major Programs,” October 22, 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note21" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note21">21.</a> Andrew Wang, “SBA Loans: What You Need to Know,” March 26, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note22" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note22">22.</a> National Association of Government Guaranteed Lenders, “SBA Statistics.”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note23" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note23">23.</a> Small Business Administration, “General Small Business Loans: 7(a).”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note24" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note24">24.</a> Small Business Administration, “SBA Loan Programs: Microloan Program,” January 2014.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note25" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note25">25.</a> Small Business Administration, “Banking and SME Financing in the United States,” June 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note26" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note26">26.</a> Federal Reserve Bank of New York, “The Credit Process: A Guide for Small Business Owners.”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note27" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note27">27.</a> <em>Entrepreneur</em>, “Bank-Term Loans.”</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note28" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note28">28.</a> “The State of Small-Business Funding,” <em>Entrepreneur</em>, July 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note29" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note29">29.</a> “How Small Firms Can Weather a Credit Crunch,” <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, August 7, 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note30" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note30">30.</a> Department of the Treasury, “CDFI Fund FY2012 Report,” 2012.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note31" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note31">31.</a> <em>Nation’s Business</em>, July 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note32" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note32">32.</a> <em>Inc.</em>, June 1987.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note33" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note33">33.</a> <em>Crain’s Chicago Business</em>, December 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note34" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note34">34.</a> Maureen Farrell, “Banking 2.0: New Capital Connections for Entrepreneurs,” <em>Forbes</em>, February 2008.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note35" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note35">35.</a> Knowledge @ Wharton, “Peer-to-Peer Lending: Ready to Grow, Despite a Few Red Flags,” January 8, 2014.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note36" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note36">36.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note37" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note37">37.</a> The International Factoring Report Annual Review 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note38" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note38">38.</a> “Fast Money,” <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, August 20, 2007.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note39" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note39">39.</a> <em>Black Enterprise</em>, July 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note40" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note40">40.</a> <em>Forbes</em>, December 28, 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note41" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note41">41.</a> <em>Black Enterprise</em>, March 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note42" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note42">42.</a> <em>Chicago Sun-Times</em>, July 17, 2001.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note43" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note43">43.</a> <em>Crain’s Chicago Business</em>, March 13, 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note44" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note44">44.</a> Samuel Stebbins, “Where Credit Card Debt Is the Worst in the US: States with the Highest Average Balances,” <em>USA Today</em>, March 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note45" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note45">45.</a> Jesse Bricker, Arthur B. Kennickell, Kevin B. Moore, and John Sabelhaus, “Changes in U.S. Family Finances from 2007 to 2010: Evidence from the Survey of Consumer Finances,” <em>Federal Reserve Bulletin</em>, June 2012.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note46" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note46">46.</a> Eva Norlyk Smith, “Mailed Credit Card Offers Jump 36 Percent,” <em>Credit Card Guide</em>, 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note47" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note47">47.</a> Doug and Polly White, “10 Ways to Fund Your Small Business,” <em>Entrepreneur</em>, February 9, 2016.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch08note48" href="ch08.xhtml#rch08note48">48.</a> Donna Borak, “Fed Files Appeal on Court’s Interchange Ruling,” <em>American Banker</em>, October 21, 2013.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 9</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note1" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note1">1.</a> The Top 25 Managers—The Top Entrepreneurs<span id="page_346" epub:type="pagebreak"></span>, <em>BusinessWeek</em>, January 7, 2001.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note2" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note2">2.</a> Pepperdine University, Center for Applied Research, Private Capital Markets Project, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note3" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note3">3.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note4" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note4">4.</a> Will Schmidt, “9 of the Hottest AngelList and Silicon Valley Angel Investors,” <em>Tech Cocktail San Francisco</em>, August 22, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note5" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note5">5.</a> <em>Forbes ASAP</em>, June 1, 1998.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note6" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note6">6.</a> Ebony Bowden, “The US Has More Millionaires Than Greece Has People,” <em>New York Post</em>, March 14, 2019.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note7" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note7">7.</a> <em>Forbes</em>, January 10, 2000.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note8" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note8">8.</a> Jeffrey Sohl, “The Angel Market in 2018: More Angels Investing in More Deals at Lower Valuations,” Center for Venture Research, May 9, 2019.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch09note9" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note9">9.</a> “The Angel Market in 2018: More Angels Investing in More Deals at Lower Valuations,” Center for Venture Research at University of New Hampshire, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note10" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note10">10.</a> <em>Inc.</em>, July 1997.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note11" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note11">11.</a> <em>Crain’s Chicago Business</em>, March 9, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note12" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note12">12.</a> Angel Capital Association, FAQs About Angel Investors, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note13" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note13">13.</a> <em>Buyouts</em>, February 8, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note14" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note14">14.</a> <em>Private Equity Analyst</em>, August 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note15" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note15">15.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note16" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note16">16.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note17" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note17">17.</a> The Global Corporate Venture Capital Report, CBINSIGHTS, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note18" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note18">18.</a> Teddy Himler, “Corporate VC Is on the Rise: Here’s What to Know,” <em>Forbes</em>, February 14, 2017.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note19" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note19">19.</a> <em>Fast Company</em>, February 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note20" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note20">20.</a> Alejandro Cremades, “How Long It Takes to Raise Capital for a Startup,” <em>Forbes</em>, January 3, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note21" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note21">21.</a> Ari Levy, “Here’s Who Is Getting Rich from Slack’s Stock Market Debut,” <em>USA Today</em>, June 20, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note22" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note22">22.</a> Javier Espinoza, “Private Equity Funds Active in Market Reach All-Time High,” <em>Financial Times</em>, April 25, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note23" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note23">23.</a> NVCA Yearbook 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note24" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note24">24.</a> Industry Statistics Year-End 2018, Emerging Markets Private Capital Fundraising and Investment, <em>EMPEA</em>, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note25" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note25">25.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note26" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note26">26.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note27" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note27">27.</a> SBA Small Business Investment<span id="page_347" epub:type="pagebreak"></span> Company Program, <em>Congressional Research Service</em>, April 4, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note28" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note28">28.</a> Small Business Administration, “Early Stage FAQs,” 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note29" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note29">29.</a> Small Business Administration, <a href="http://www.sba.gov">www.sba.gov</a>.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note30" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note30">30.</a> SBA Small Business Investment Company Program, Congressional Research Service, July 24, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note31" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note31">31.</a> <em>Directorship</em> magazine, Fall 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note32" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note32">32.</a> <em>The Economist</em>, May 3, 2001.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note33" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note33">33.</a> <em>Fast Company</em>, January 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note34" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note34">34.</a> Edward Chancellor, <em>Devil Take the Hindmost: A History of Financial Speculation</em>, New York: Farrar, Straus, Giroux, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note35" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note35">35.</a> <em>Boston Globe</em>, February 21, 2001.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note36" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note36">36.</a> <em>USA Today</em>, June 22, 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note37" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note37">37.</a> <em>USA Today</em>, December 23, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note38" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note38">38.</a> <em>Time</em>, September 27, 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note39" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note39">39.</a> NYSE Euronext, U.S. Listing Standards.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note40" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note40">40.</a> Total Market Cap, <em>NYSE</em>, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note41" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note41">41.</a> Ryan Vlastelica, “U.S. Stock Trading Volume Hit a Three-Year Low in 2017 amid Near-Absent Volatility,” Market Watch, December 22, 2017.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note42" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note42">42.</a> <em>Chicago Sun-Times</em>, September 3, 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note43" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note43">43.</a> Dow Jones Industrial Average Fact Sheet, September 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note44" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note44">44.</a> Prime Interest Rate History, February 4, 2014.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note45" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note45">45.</a> Prime Rate History, <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, 2018.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note46" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note46">46.</a> <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, April 6, 2001.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note47" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note47">47.</a> Jacob Sonenshine, “Amazon’s Jeff Bezos Announces He and His Wife Are Getting Divorced,” <em>The Street</em>, January 9, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note48" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note48">48.</a> James Arkebauer and Ron Schultz, <em>The Entrepreneur’s Guide to Going Public</em>, Dover, NH: Upstart, 1994.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note49" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note49">49.</a> “Bill Ford Nearly Doubles Stake in Ford Supervoting Shares,” <em>Automotive News</em>, June 26, 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note50" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note50">50.</a> Arkebauer, <em>Entrepreneur’s Guide</em>.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note51" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note51">51.</a> <em>Inc.</em>, February 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note52" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note52">52.</a> <em>Success</em>, January 1999.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note53" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note53">53.</a> <em>Inc.</em>, December 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note54" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note54">54.</a> <em>Essence</em>, May 1998.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch09note55" href="ch09.xhtml#rch09note55">55.</a> <em>USA Today</em>, April 29, 1997.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 10</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note1" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note1">1.</a> Jeff Jeffrey, “Minority-Owned Companies Driving Growth Among U.S. Businesses, Survey Says,” <em>Biz Journals</em>, September 26, 2017.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note2" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note2">2.</a> Minority Business Ownership, Data from the 2012 Survey of Business Owners.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note3" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note3">3.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note4" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note4">4.</a> Meredith Wood, “Finding the Best Small Business Loans for Women,” <em>Fundera</em>, July 22, 2019.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note5" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note5">5.</a> Report on SBLF Participants’ Small Business Lending Growth, Small Business Lending Fund, January 2018.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note6" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note6">6.</a> Business Consortium Fund, <em>Inc</em>., February 11, 2014.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note7" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note7">7.</a> Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note8" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note8">8.</a> “Year to Date SBA Business Loan<span id="page_348" epub:type="pagebreak"></span> Approval Activity, Fiscal Years 2010, 2011, and 2012,” period ending September 30, 2012.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch10note9" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note9">9.</a> Website Report, <a href="http://sba.gov">sba.gov</a>, May 31, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note10" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note10">10.</a> Anna Serino, “Accion Business Microloans Review,” <em>Finder</em>, March 2, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note11" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note11">11.</a> Intuit Quickbooks Financing, February 2014.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note12" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note12">12.</a> Biz2Credit February 2014.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note13" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note13">13.</a> Actual details of the lending results are private to Intuit and Hinkle. Given information is based on an interview with Hinkle in October 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note14" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note14">14.</a> “Diverse and Minority Private Equity Firms Outperform General Industry,” <em>National Association of Investment Companies</em>, October 1, 2012.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note15" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note15">15.</a> About Us, National Association of Investment Companies.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note16" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note16">16.</a> Steven S. Rogers, Stanley Onuoha, and Kayin Barclay, <em>Sources of Capital for Black Entrepreneurs</em> (Harvard Business Publishing, 2019).</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note17" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note17">17.</a> 2019 Women-Owned Business Study, <em>Biz2Credit</em>, March 7, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note18" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note18">18.</a> Rohit Arora, “The Lending Gap Narrows for Women Business Owners, But It’s Still 31% Less Than for Men,” <em>CNBC</em>, March 7, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note19" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note19">19.</a> Wells Fargo, press release, May 2, 2006.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note20" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note20">20.</a> National Association of Women Business Owners Newsletters, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note21" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note21">21.</a> National Foundation for Women Business Owners, October 17, 1996.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note22" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note22">22.</a> Key4Women, “Helping Business Women Meet Their Financial Goals Since 2005,” Key Bank, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note23" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note23">23.</a> Mary Ellen Iskenderian, “Women’s World Banking Honors Citi for its Commitment to Global Financial Inclusion,” CitiGroup, May 7, 2019.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note24" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note24">24.</a> The State of Women-Owned Businesses Report, <em>American Express</em>, 2017.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note25" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note25">25.</a> <em>USA Today</em>, August 14, 2001.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note26" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note26">26.</a> Alicia Robb, “Access to Capital Among Young Firms, Minority-Owned Firms, Women-Owned Firms, and High-tech Firms,” SBA Office of Advocacy, April 2013.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note27" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note27">27.</a> “Women Entrepreneurs in the Equity Capital Markets: The New Frontier,” National Foundation for Women Business Owners, 2000.</p>
<p class="note1"><a id="ch10note28" href="ch10.xhtml#rch10note28">28.</a> <em>Chicago Sun-Times</em>, March 24, 1999.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 12</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch12note1" href="ch12.xhtml#rch12note1">1.</a> Gary Emmon, “Up from the Ashes: The Life and Thought of Joseph Schumpeter,” <em>Harvard Business School Alumni Bulletin</em>, June 2007.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch12note2" href="ch12.xhtml#rch12note2">2.</a> Robert C. Wolcott and Michael J. Lippitz, “The Four Models of Corporate Entrepreneurship,” <em>MIT Sloan Management Review</em>, Fall 2007.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch12note3" href="ch12.xhtml#rch12note3">3.</a> Adam Lashinsky, “Chaos by Design,” <em>Fortune</em>, October 2, 2006.</p>
<p class="note-h">Chapter 13</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note1" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note1">1.</a> “Let’s Fix David Henneberry’s Boat (That Got Ruined in the Boston Bomber’s Standoff)!,” Crowdtilt, September 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note2" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note2">2.</a> Spike Lee, “The Newest Hottest Spike<span id="page_349" epub:type="pagebreak"></span> Lee Joint,” <em>Kickstarter</em>, September 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note3" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note3">3.</a> DopeKicks—The 1st waterproof hemp shoes, <em>Kickstarter</em>, 2019.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note4" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note4">4.</a> Kathleen Davis, “4 Famous Crowdfunding Fails” <em>Entrepreneur</em>, October 24, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note5" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note5">5.</a> Student campaign: “Revelo LIFEbike: The Compact Ebike That Can Make a BIG Difference”</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note6" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note6">6.</a> Brian Allen, “Interview: Hunter Hillenmeyer Talks OverDog, Kickstarter and Gaming with Pro Athletes,” <em>Technology Tell</em>, September 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note7" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note7">7.</a> <a href="http://Congress.gov">Congress.gov</a>, September 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a id="ch13note8" href="ch13.xhtml#rch13note8">8.</a> Prosper home page, 2019.</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>