<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Bulletproof Problem Solving</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section class="ATA" epub:type="contributors">
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="265" id="Page_265" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><a id="bibliography"></a><span style="color: #d9272e;">About the Authors</span></h1></header>
<section>
<span id="babout-sec-0001"></span>
<p id="babout-para-0001">Rob and Charles met at McKinsey &amp; Company 25 years ago and formed a bond around doing the highest quality problem solving for their clients. After McKinsey, they continued to extend this problem solving methodology, developing approaches to societal scale problems, particularly around a shared interest in nature conservation. Both teach problem solving to graduate students, companies, and nonprofits worldwide.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0002"><b>Charles Conn</b></p>
<p id="babout-para-0003">Charles recently completed his term as CEO of the Rhodes Trust, the organization that delivers the Rhodes Scholarships in Oxford. In this role Charles led a successful transformation effort to refresh the century‐old organization's strategy and operations, including development of a problem solving training program for scholars. He sits or has sat on many company and nonprofit boards, including Patagonia, the Mandela Rhodes Foundation in South Africa, and Arcadia Foundation. Before this, Charles was senior advisor to the Gordon &amp; Betty Moore Foundation, where his conservation projects included the wild salmon ecosystems initiative and the Palmyra atoll research station. Charles was a technology entrepreneur, and as founding CEO of Ticketmaster‐Citysearch led the company through its IPO and acquisitions of <a href="http://Match.com">Match.com</a>, Evite, and other companies. He began his career at the Boston Consulting Group and was a Partner of McKinsey &amp; Company. He is a graduate of Harvard and Boston Universities, and Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0004"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="266" id="Page_266" role="doc-pagebreak"></span> <b>Rob McLean, AM</b></p>
<p id="babout-para-0005">Rob is a Director Emeritus of McKinsey and Company. He led the Australian and New Zealand McKinsey practice for eight years and served on the firm's global Director's Committee. As Dean of the Australian Graduate School of Management (AGSM), Rob saw the growing need for stronger problem‐solving capability for business leaders of the future. He is now an investor in mathematics education and data analytics software, alongside his philanthropic interests in conservation and social enterprise. He employs these techniques in his role as a Trustee of The Nature Conservancy in Australia and Asia to address water for wetlands, shellfish restoration, and improving human health from urban green spaces. He is a director of the Paul Ramsay Foundation, Australia's largest philanthropic foundation. He is a graduate of the University of New England in Australia and the Columbia University Graduate School of Business. He became a member of the Order of Australia in 2010 for his contributions to business, social welfare, and the environment.</p> </section> </section></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>