<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Bulletproof Problem Solving</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments">
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="267" id="Page_267" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><a id="fm1"></a><span style="color: #d9272e;">Acknowledgments</span></h1></header>
<section>
<span id="flast03-sec-0001"></span>
<p id="flast03-para-0001">We have benefited enormously from interacting with problem solving colleagues over 30 years in many different walks of life. Creative problem solving works best with critical friends, and we have had many. Our memories are imperfect, so we provide our apologies in advance for any we've accidentally omitted.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0002">We will start with our colleagues at McKinsey, who have been formidable leaders in advancing problem solving approaches. These include our close colleagues David White, John Stuckey, and Mehrdad Baghai, but also Ron Farmer, David Balkin, Clem Doherty, Diane Grady, David Court, Nick Lovegrove, Andrew Nevin, David Ravech, Evan Thornley, Kate Harbin, Jeremy Liew, and Greg Reed (who co‐authored the 1992 internal training document <i>7 Easy Steps to Bulletproof Problem Solving</i> with Charles). Rob would like to thank colleagues he learned so much from early in his career, including Sir Roderick Carnegie, Fred Hilmer, Don Watters, Robert Waterman, Ian Shepherd, and Charles Shaw. Special thanks to Rik Kirkland, who guided our book writing with a firm hand every step of the way, and to Dominic Barton, Charles's Rhodes classmate and now retired Managing Director of McKinsey.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0003">We spent a wonderful summer with our Rhodes Scholar and Oxford graduate student research team, including Jess Glennie, analytic thinker and illustrator extraordinaire (Jess drew every exhibit in this book), Brody Foy, Bogdan Knezevic, Ashley Orr, William Rathje, Tim Rudner, and Evan Soltas. We also had help with particular case studies from JanaLee Cherneski, Linda Eggert, Nadiya Figueroa, <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="268" id="Page_268" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Max Harris, Michael Lamb, and Miles Unterreiner. Special thanks to Sir John Hood, Chair of the Rhodes Trust, for encouraging this work.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0004">Charles would like also to thank his earlier colleagues at the Boston Consulting Group, including Steve Gunby, Gary Reiner, Steve Kaplan, and Thomas Layton, each a remarkably insightful problem solver. Thanks also to the founders and senior team at Patagonia, the boldest environmental and business problem solvers we know.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0005">Both Rob and Charles had the good fortune to apply these problem solving techniques in environmental conservation work. We would like to thank colleagues and grantees of the Gordon &amp; Betty Moore Foundation, including Aileen Lee, Ivan Thompson, Michael Webster, Pic Walker, Maureen Geesey, Heather Wright, Greg Knox, Greg Taylor, Bruce, Julia, and Aaron Hill, Mark Beere, Professor Jack Stanford, Jeff Vermillion, Spencer Beebe, and Guido Rahr. Special thanks also to those we have worked with on many complex projects at The Nature Conservancy, extraordinary problem solvers for the environment, including Chuck Cook, Nancy Mackinnon, Mark Tercek, Bill Ginn, Michael Looker, and Rich Gilmore.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0006">The book benefited from the critical attention of many readers and advisors, including Professor Barry Nalebuff of Yale, Dan Lovallo of the University of Western Australia, David Lavin, Professor Stephen Roberts, Professor Sally Cripps of the University of Sydney, Ashok Alexander, Dr. Paul Scully Power, Jon Ireland, Nigel Poole, Cameron Conn, Dr. Timothy Ryback of the Institute for Historical Justice and Reconciliation, and two anonymous reviewers.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0007">We had wonderful editorial help from Paula McLean, Rob's wife, an editor herself, who spent the summer at Oxford in the team room, reading drafts of all the chapters and making this a better book by constantly reminding us to explain our logic in more detail, write clean lines without business jargon, and tell good stories. Virginia Grant, Rob's daughter, also an editor, took on the task of editing the manuscript prior to submission. We thank her for fitting us into her busy schedule and improving the content substantially. We chose not to engage a literary agent but instead relied on the advice of <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="269" id="Page_269" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Margie Seale, former Managing Editor of a major publishing house in Australia.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0008">Warm thanks to Bill Falloon from John Wiley &amp; Sons, who believed in this book and its two first‐time authors. Jayalakshmi Erkathil Thevarkandi, Michael Henton, and Richard Samson from the editorial team at Wiley were a pleasure to work with in getting the manuscript into print.</p>
<p id="flast03-para-0010">Camilla Borg and Paula McLean supported us through the long nights and weekends of research, writing, and editing. This book is dedicated to them.</p>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>