<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Bulletproof Problem Solving</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="253" id="Page_253" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><a id="c10"></a><span class="chapterNumber" style="color: #6d6f72;">Chapter Ten</span><br/><span class="chapterTitle" style="color: #d9272e;">Becoming a Great Problem Solver</span></h1></header>
<section>
<span id="c10-sec-0001"></span>
<p id="c10-para-0001">We started the book by outlining the need for creative problem solving capability in all walks of life. There was a time when problem solving was viewed as the domain of a few professions like science, engineering, and management consulting. With the accelerating changes of the twenty‐first century, it is no longer a skill in limited domains but an expectation of individuals and teams across the business, non‐profit, and government sectors. People are increasingly hired based on demonstrated analytic and thinking skills, evaluated for creative problem solving, and promoted for their ability to mobilize agile teams to rapidly address changing demands. This is the problem solving century.</p>
<p id="c10-para-0002">We are convinced that good problem solvers are made not born. In the book we have taken a close look at what great problem solving entails. Our goal has been to help you become confident and creative problem solvers, to feel competent and empowered to employ these techniques for problems at any scale. The seven‐step <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="254" id="Page_254" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>process we have outlined provides a way to take a business, personal, or societal problem you face and work it through to a solution. The 30 cases we have discussed cover the gamut of problems you are likely to encounter in your work and life. We hope no mystery remains about what is involved in great problem solving.</p>
<p id="c10-para-0003">The seven‐step bulletproof problem solving process doesn't require a degree in higher mathematics or logic. Great problem solving consists of good questions that become sharp hypotheses, a logical approach to framing and disaggregating issues, strict prioritization to save time, solid team processes to foster creativity and fight bias, smart analytics that start with heuristics and move to the right big guns, and finally a commitment to synthesize findings and turn them into a story that galvanizes action. We are confident that with practice and experience you will cleave problems in new and clever ways, learn to separate root causes from symptoms, and stay on the critical path of efficient problem solving. We have this confidence because over our careers we have seen others go from being bright graduates to impressive problem solvers in a short time.</p>
<p>There are some last words of encouragement and advice that we want to provide in this closing chapter. They are the watchwords of the seven‐step process, what we feel so strongly about when we discuss this approach with our teams. There are 10 points in all to keep in mind. They are:</p>
<ol class="decimal" id="c10-list-0001">
<li id="c10-li-0001"><b>Take the time up front to really understand your problem</b>. Often the initial problem that is posed isn't the right question. Take the time to probe the problem carefully with the decision makers involved before racing off to conduct analysis. Know the boundaries (it is often worth testing them to maximize creativity), the accuracy required, the time frame allotted, and any other forces acting on the problem. Be ready to revise your problem statement as you learn, refining it iteratively with one‐day answers. Remember, the whole idea is to motivate action for change.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0002"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="255" id="Page_255" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b>Get started with nothing more than a problem statement</b>. You don't need to wait for giant data sets or fancy computer models. Get a large piece of paper and a pencil, or better yet a whiteboard, and begin sketching out a logic tree for your problem. When you dive into the data you can expect your thinking will evolve and move from a simple component structure to more sophisticated hypotheses. At this stage you are simply exploring what has to be true in order to support a hypothesis.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0003"><b>Try several cuts at the tree</b>. We often write components or branches on sticky notes and move them around until they make sense in a logical grouping. You can think of this as solving the puzzle backward from the most tangible, known pieces you have. Try one or more cleaving frames to see which ones yield the most insight. Then lay out the main relationships that follow from the disaggregation you've selected, ideally in a mathematical fashion or one that exhausts possibilities.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0004"><b>Use a team wherever you can</b>. Teams bring great advantages to problem solving via diversity in thinking and experiences that deepen the richness of creativity and reduce the chance of confirmation and other persistent bias. If you are on your own, make a team of colleagues, friends, family, and neighbors. We created virtual teams of knowledgeable people to test our thinking and hypotheses for our case examples, especially ones that involve deep‐domain expertise. This made us much smarter than we are on our own, and it also makes it fun. Try techniques like team voting to overcome authority bias, red‐team/blue‐team competitions to be aware of other perspectives, and mock trials to advance the antithesis.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0005"><b>Make the right investment in a good workplan</b>. A good workplan takes a little upfront time but will save so much wasted effort later. Prune your tree savagely by focusing on the big levers of impact that you can move. Be piercingly precise about what a particular output should look like, what hypothesis it questions, who will do it and by when. Use chunky plans that run only two to four weeks out so you don't over‐run your initial thinking, and lean Gantt study plans to keep your work on track.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0006"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="256" id="Page_256" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b>Start your analysis with summary statistics, heuristics, and rules of thumb to get a feel for the data and the solution space</b>. Before you dive into giant data sets, machine learning, Monte Carlo simulations, or other big guns, we believe it is imperative to explore the data, learn its quality, understand the magnitudes and direction of key relationships, and assess whether you are trying to understand drivers to plan an intervention or predict a state of the world. Sophisticated analysis has its place, but it is our experience that one‐day answers, supported by good logic and simple heuristics, are often sufficient to close the book on many problems, allowing you to move on to the more difficult ones.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0007"><b>Don't be afraid to employ big analytic guns when required</b>. Sometimes a complex problem like bus routing across a major city, detecting disease in medical images, or optimizing production facilities for a global company, does require advanced analytics. Most of the tools you may have encountered in a statistics or operations research course are now more accessible with simple, powerful, and intuitive software packages. You also have the option of outsourcing your big‐gun problems to eager teams of crowd‐sourced machine learning practitioners who will analyze your data and make predictions for modest encouragement and occasional remuneration. When your objective involves other actors whose behavior will change when you make your moves, especially when played out over longer and more uncertain periods, it is time to invest some effort in game‐theory models, risk‐management actions, strategy staircases, and long‐term theories of change.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0008"><b>Put as much effort into synthesis and telling the story as doing the analysis</b>. It's natural to declare a problem solved when you have completed a powerful analysis that reveals great insight about a problem. But most of the problem solving you will ever do in business, non‐profits, or politics involves <i>persuading someone to do something differently</i>. This is why the problem is rarely solved at the point of your Eureka moment. You'll have to be persuasive to convince powerful stakeholders to follow your plans. Remember, humans are visual learners and love storytelling above all else.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0009"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="257" id="Page_257" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b>Treat the seven‐steps process like an accordion</b>. We have frequently referred to the seven steps as an iterative process. We have also sought to emphasize that you can compress or expand steps depending on the issue, so in some ways it is also like an accordion. Use one‐day answers to motivate the team and decision maker to go to the level of analysis that the problem requires.</li>
<li id="c10-li-0010"><b>Don't be intimidated by any problem you face</b>. If you invest the time in mastering the seven‐steps process we are confident you will feel ready to tackle almost any personal, business, or societal problem that comes your way, even the wicked ones. This isn't hubris. It is simply saying that with a reasonable investment in systematic problem solving you will find insight into almost any problem of consequence. That is why bulletproof problem solving feels like a superpower when you get good at it.</li></ol>
<p id="c10-para-0005">We don't see the problems of our lives as individuals, workers, and citizens getting any easier. Most of our institutions haven't invested enough in creative problem solving to find clever solutions and bridge differences. Now we have that opportunity and we hope you'll do your part to contribute solutions to the challenges of our century.</p> </section> </section></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>