<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Bulletproof Problem Solving</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>
<span id="ffirs01-sec-0001"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-66"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="i" id="Page_i" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><a id="fm2"></a><span style="color: #d9272e;">Praise for Bulletproof Problem Solving</span></h2>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="ffirs01-para-0002">“The Bulletproof Problem Solving approach acknowledges the reality many environmentalists face today: this is hard work. Conn and McLean's guide makes it a little bit easier.”</p> <p class="source"><b>‐Mark R. Tercek</b>, CEO of The Nature Conservancy and author of <i>Nature's Fortune</i></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="ffirs01-para-0004">“Conn and McLean have distilled their matchless experience in attacking challenges of every scale and level of complexity into this virtual war‐room of a book, creating an indispensable resource for the 21st century problem‐solvers upon whom our future depends. A must‐read for all aspiring change agents!”</p>
<p class="source"><b>‐Sally Osberg</b>, retired CEO of the Skoll Foundation, co‐author of <i>Getting Beyond Better: How Social Entrepreneurship Works</i></p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="ffirs01-para-0006">“Navigating ambiguity and solving complex problems creatively is the truth test for humans to complement rather than substitute the artificial intelligence of computers. Without much better approaches to teach those skills, our schools risk preparing second class robots rather than first class humans. Rob McLean and Charles Conn show that this can be done and provide an intuitive roadmap for how to do this, with lots of real‐world examples that make it fun.”</p>
<p class="source"><b>‐Andreas Schleicher</b>, Director for the Directorate of Education and Skills, OECD</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="ffirs01-para-0008">“Great strategic problem solving is an essential tool, one whose value is only going up. <i>Bulletproof</i> provides the secret sauce behind the McKinsey framework to help structure and guide the problem‐solving process. I want to hire people who understand this approach.”</p>
<p class="source"><b>‐Barry Nalebuff</b>, Milton Steinbach Professor, Yale School of Management and cofounder, Honest Tea</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="ffirs01-para-0010">“The old paradigm of strategy departments and planning cycles has been overthrown by agile and rapid team‐based problem solving, providing better solutions and better organization alignment to implement. This book, written by two of the smartest people I know, provides the needed blueprint for how build these world‐beating problem solving teams.”</p>
<p class="source"><b>‐Mehrdad Baghai</b>, Chair of Alchemy Growth and author of <i>As One</i></p> </blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="ffirs01-para-0012"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="ii" id="Page_ii" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>“The world has never been in more need of extraordinary problem solvers‐in business and every other walk of life. Rob McLean and Charles Conn powerfully demonstrate that problem solving is a structured process that can be learned and applied to the benefit of everybody. Their book is such an important contribution to the resolution of our biggest problem solving challenges.”</p>
<p class="source"><b>‐Nick Lovegrove</b>, Professor of the Practice, Georgetown University and author of <i>The Mosaic Principle</i></p> </blockquote>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>