<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Bulletproof Problem Solving</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="foreword" role="doc-foreword">
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="ix" id="Page_ix" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><a id="fm4"></a><span style="color: #d9272e;">Foreword</span></h1></header>
<section>
<span id="flast01-sec-0001"></span>
<p id="flast01-para-0001">Bulletproof. At McKinsey there is no greater compliment than to have your reputation as a problem solver described as “bulletproof.” While it takes many skills and types of intelligence to make a modern consulting firm work, the cornerstone capability is always creative problem solving.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-0002">The importance of great problem solving has only grown as the pace of economic and technological change has accelerated in recent years—and the scope and complexity of the problems we need to address increases alongside it. Today we are just as likely to be hired to help a country public health system prepare for the next Ebola outbreak as to develop a digital marketing strategy for a new consumer product. As ever more data becomes available, the bar on the quality of thinking rises. We need bulletproof problem solvers.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-0003">Whether you work in industry, the nonprofit sector, or government, there is no way to anticipate and plan for the new structures and operating rules that are unfolding. Nor is simply accelerating and adapting traditional, domain‐oriented, training approaches sufficient. The only way to successfully navigate this level of change is to be a fluid and creative problem solver. That's why the World Economic Forum labeled complex problem solving its number one skill for the twenty‐first century. Organizations everywhere are looking for this capability in their talent recruiting above all else.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-0004"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="x" id="Page_x" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>What is perhaps surprising is that a disciplined, comprehensive approach to problem solving isn't taught in schools or universities. It is absent from most curricula even in many business schools. You can see elements in things like root‐cause analysis or the current vogue for agile teams and design thinking, but they don't go far enough. This book introduces the systematic process for problem solving that has been missing, a version of the time‐tested methodology we have used for many years in McKinsey.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-0005">The seven‐step method Charles and Rob demonstrate here is transparent and straightforward. It doesn't require specialist skills or fancy mathematical talent—though the authors do show when more sophisticated analytic techniques can be valuable, and why they are often more accessible than you think. It is iterative and flexible; it can be applied quickly to get rough‐cut answers, and more slowly to fine‐tune nuanced answers. It shows how to fight the human biases in decision making that we have learned so much about in recent years. And it works on nearly any kind of problem, from personal life decisions, to business and nonprofit questions, to the biggest policy challenges facing society.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-0006">As a longtime runner, I was especially drawn to Rob's analysis of whether or not to have knee surgery. I was also impressed by the straightforward analysis that can help voters consider their response to complicated policy decisions in areas like fisheries and educational funding. I naturally enjoyed reading the cases covering business strategy or enhancing profitability. And while there are some genuinely intractable social and environmental problems, this methodology can still shine light on solution paths to even the trickiest challenges, including fighting climate change and obesity.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-0007">You couldn't ask for more qualified authors to write a book of this kind. Charles drafted the original internal McKinsey presentation on problem solving, <i>7 Easy Steps to Bulletproof Problem Solving</i>, one of our most requested professional development documents ever, when we were young consultants in Toronto. I have known Rob for more than 35 years, starting with a project we did together on how to leverage the time of the CEO of Australia's largest company. <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="xi" id="Page_xi" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>During their time at McKinsey, Rob and Charles collaborated with other colleagues to develop the horizons approach to growth strategy that we still use today. After they left the firm, I enjoyed watching them both continue to apply their problem solving method as entrepreneurs and as change makers in the nonprofit sector. In recent years I have had a front‐row seat as Charles brought this distinctive mindset to strategy development and transformation at the Rhodes Trust.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-0008">Problem solving is the core skill for the twenty‐first century. Now, finally, we have a guide to doing it right that any of us can follow.</p>
<p id="flast01-para-9008" class="right">Dominic Barton</p>
<p id="flast01-para-9009" class="right"><i>Managing Director (Retired), McKinsey &amp; Company</i></p>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>