<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Preface, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-3" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div role="doc-preface">
			<h1 class="x01-FM-Head" id="_idParaDest-4"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_vii" role="doc-pagebreak" title="vii"/>Preface</h1>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">I started working at an intelligence agency in August 2001. A few weeks later, the world changed forever.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Everyone at the agency suddenly found themselves thrust into positions and responsibilities they weren’t ready for. My job involved constantly figuring out how to do things few had even imagined possible. Not only did I need to solve complicated and new problems, but people’s lives were at stake. Failure was not an option.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One night, I was walking home at 3:00 a.m. after one of our operations. The outcome wasn’t what I had hoped for. I knew I’d have to face my boss in the morning and explain what happened and what I’d been thinking when I made the choices I did.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Had I thought everything through clearly? Was there something I missed? How was I to know?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">My thinking would be laid bare for everyone to see and judge.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I walked into my boss’s office the next day and explained what went through my mind. When I finished, I told him I <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_viii" role="doc-pagebreak" title="viii"/>wasn’t ready for this job or the level of responsibility it required. He put his pen down, drew a deep breath, and said, “No one is ready for this job, Shane. But you and this team are all we got.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">His response wasn’t exactly comforting. By “team” he meant twelve people working eighty hours a week for years. By “all we got” he meant starting the most important new program the agency had seen in generations. I walked away from our brief encounter with my head spinning.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">That night I started asking myself questions that I’d continue exploring for the next decade. How can we get better at reasoning? Why do people make bad decisions? Why do some people consistently get better results than others who have the same information? How can I be right more often, and decrease the probability of a bad outcome when lives are on the line?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Up until that point in my career, I’d been fairly lucky, and while I wanted that luck to continue, I also wanted to depend on it less. If there was a method for clear thinking and good judgment—I wanted to harness it.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you’re like me, no one ever taught you how to think or make decisions. There’s no class called Clear Thinking 101 in school. Everyone seems to expect you to know how to do it already or to learn how on your own. As it turns out, though, learning about thinking—thinking <i>clearly</i>—is surprisingly hard.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">For the next several years, I devoted myself to learning how to think better. I watched how people acquired information, reasoned, and acted in practice, and how their actions unfolded into positive or negative outcomes. Were some people just smarter than others? Or did they have better systems or practices in place? In the moments that mattered, were people even <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_ix" role="doc-pagebreak" title="ix"/>aware of the quality of their thinking? How could I avoid the obvious errors?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I followed the most senior people around to meetings. I’d sit there quietly<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="42_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-003-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a>* listening to what they thought was important and why. I read anything I could on cognition and talked to anyone who would pick up the phone.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I sought out the titans of industry<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="43_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-002-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> who seemed to consistently think clearly even when others couldn’t. They seemed to know something that was not commonly known, and I was determined to find out what.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">While the rest of us are chasing victory, the best in the world know they must avoid losing before they can win. It turns out this is a surprisingly effective strategy.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">To catalog my learning, I created an anonymous website called Farnam Street, found at fs.blog, named in honor of Charlie Munger and Warren Buffett,<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="44_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_3" id="footnote-001-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> two people who exercise judgment for a living and who have had a profound impact on how I see the world.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="45_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_4" id="footnote-000-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I’ve been fortunate over the years to talk to my heroes Charlie Munger and Daniel Kahneman about thinking and <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_x" role="doc-pagebreak" title="x"/>decision-making, along with other master practitioners like Bill Ackman, Annie Duke, Adam Robinson, Randall Stutman, and Kat Cole. Many of these conversations are public on <i>The Knowledge Project</i> podcast. Others, like my time spent with Munger, must remain private. Among all the people I’ve spoken with, though, no one has influenced my thinking and ideas more than my friend Peter D. Kaufman.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Thousands of conversations have yielded a key insight.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In order to get the results we desire, we must do two things. We must first create the space to reason in our thoughts, feelings, and actions; and second, we must deliberately use that space to think clearly. Once you have mastered this skill, you will find you have an unstoppable advantage.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Decisions made through clear thinking will put you in increasingly better positions, and success will only compound from there.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">This book is a practical guide to mastering clear thinking.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The first half of the book is about creating space for it. First, we identify the enemies of clear thinking. You will learn how most of what we consider to be “thinking” is in fact reacting without reasoning, prompted by biological instincts that evolved to preserve our species. When we react without reasoning, our position is weakened, and our options get increasingly worse. When we ritualize a response to our biological triggers, we create the space to think clearly, and strengthen our position. Then, we identify a number of practical, actionable ways to both manage your weaknesses and build your strengths so that space is consistently created when you’re under pressure.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The second half of the book is about putting clear thinking into practice. Once you are in a place where you’ve shored up your strengths and managed your weaknesses—when you’ve created the pause between thought and action—you can turn <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xi" role="doc-pagebreak" title="xi"/>clear thinking into effective decisions. In Part 4 I share the most practical tools you can use to solve problems.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Finally, once you have mastered the skills of making your defaults work for instead of against you and maximizing the tool that is your rational mind, I’ll turn to perhaps the most important question of all: the question of what your goals are in the first place. All the successful execution in the world is worthless if it’s not in service of the right outcome, but how do you decide what that is?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Along the way, I’ll show you the most effective approaches to thinking in a way few people talk about. We won’t use fancy jargon, spreadsheets, or decision trees. Instead, we’ll focus on the practical skills I’ve learned from others, discovered on my own, and tested on thousands of people from various organizations, cultures, and industries.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Together we’ll uncover the missing link between behavioral science and real-world results and turn ordinary moments into extraordinary results.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The lessons in this book are simple, practical, and timeless. They draw heavily on the wisdom of others and my own lived experience putting them into practice. I relied on these lessons and insights to make better decisions inside the intelligence agency, build and scale multiple businesses, and surprisingly become a better parent. How you use them is up to you.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If there is a tagline to my life, it is “Mastering the best of what other people have already figured out,” and this book is a tribute to that belief. I’ve done my best to attribute those ideas to the people who deserve the credit. I’ve probably missed some, and for that I apologize. When you put things into practice, they become part of you. After two decades, thousands of conversations with the best in the world, and more books devoured than I can count, it’s not easy to remember where <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xii" role="doc-pagebreak" title="xii"/>everything comes from. Most of it has just been ingrained into my unconscious. It’s safe to assume that anything useful in this book is someone else’s idea, and that my main contribution is to put the mosaic of what I’ve learned from others who came before me out there for the world.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>