<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 1.2: The Emotion Default, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-7" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-10"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_12" role="doc-pagebreak" title="12"/>CHAPTER 1.2</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-11">The Emotion Default</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text"><i class="_-CO-1st-LINE-ITAL-SCAP">The Godfather</i> is one of my favorite movies, in part because of the many business lessons it contains. Vito Corleone, head of the Corleone crime family, is a master of patience and discipline. With his defaults under control, he never reacts without reasoning, and when he does react, it’s ruthlessly effective.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Vito’s oldest son, Santino, a.k.a. Sonny, is Vito’s heir apparent. Unlike his father, however, Sonny is vengeful, impulsive, and hotheaded. He easily flies into fits of rage, reacting first and reasoning later. His unforced errors ensure he’s constantly playing life on hard mode.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The emotion default controls Sonny, and he doesn’t realize it. On one occasion, he beats his brother-in-law, Carlo Rizzi, in public, an act that will have unintended future consequences. On another occasion, a rival family approaches Vito about partnering to sell drugs. Vito declines. But Sonny, quick to react without thinking, jumps in and undermines his father’s position. After the meeting, Vito offers his son a lesson: “Never tell anyone outside the family what you’re thinking again.” <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_13" role="doc-pagebreak" title="13"/>But the lesson comes too late; the damage is already done. The dealer decides that if Vito can be taken out, Sonny will take the deal. Sonny’s indiscretion leads to an assassination attempt on Vito’s life, which critically wounds his father.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">While Vito is in the hospital, Sonny becomes acting head of the family. True to his impulsive nature, he initiates an all-out war with the other families. Meanwhile, Carlo Rizzi continues to resent Sonny for beating him in front of his crew, and conspires with a rival family to kill him. Carlo baits Sonny into reacting without reasoning, which leads to Sonny’s brutal assassination on the Jones Beach Causeway.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Sonny’s quick temper ultimately leads to his downfall, as it does for many people. When we respond without reasoning, we’re more likely to make mistakes that seem obvious in hindsight. In fact, when we respond emotionally, we often don’t even realize that we’re in a position that calls for thinking at all. When you are possessed by the moment, all the reasoning tools in the world won’t help you.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">From Emotion to Action</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">There’s a bit of Sonny in each of us. You experience anger, fear, or some other emotion, and feel compelled to act immediately. But in these moments, the action you’re pushed toward rarely serves you.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Anger at a rival prevents you from doing what’s in your own best interest. Fear of losing an opportunity pushes you to cut thinking short and act impulsively. Outrage at a criticism causes you to lash out in defense, alienating potential allies. The list goes on.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Emotions can multiply all of your progress by zero. It doesn’t matter how much you’ve thought about or worked at <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" role="doc-pagebreak" title="14"/>something, it can all be undone in an instant. No one is immune. The Olympian Matthew Emmons, for instance, was a prodigy who’d come to dominate the field of competitive rifle shooting. He was poised to win his second Olympic gold when the emotion default worked its mischief. Emmons was in the final round. He aimed. He fired. Bullseye. The only problem: he shot at the wrong target! Had it been the right one, he would’ve won the gold. Instead, he was awarded zero points and slipped to eighth place.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Afterward, Emmons said that he usually looked through the rifle scope at the number above the target to make sure it was the correct one before lowering the rifle to the bullseye. In this case, he’d skipped that crucial first step.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“On that shot,” he said, “I was just worrying about calming myself down . . . so I didn’t even look at the number.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber3" id="SuperscriptNumber3" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> So he scored a point for the emotion default, instead.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">While Emmons’s Olympic loss is epic, it pales in comparison to the tragedy that unfolded in the life of a former colleague of mine. Let’s call him Steve. I noticed that Steve always seemed to shut down whenever politics came up during work dinners. One day, away from the group, I asked him why.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">He told me a story I’d never forget.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One night, Steve’s parents came over for dinner. When they started talking about politics and taxes, the conversation grew heated. Steve’s emotions soon took over, and he started saying things he probably didn’t mean. Things that couldn’t be unsaid. Things we might say when we’re reacting and not thinking.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">That was the last conversation he ever had with his parents. On their way home, their car was struck head on by a drunk driver. Neither recovered. That night still haunts Steve to this <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_15" role="doc-pagebreak" title="15"/>day. It’s a memory that won’t go away, about an ordinary moment he’ll forever regret.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Emotions can make even the best of us into idiots, driving us away from clear thinking. They often have help, though. Later we’ll see some of the many inbuilt biological vulnerabilities that leave us even more exposed to the emotion default’s influence: sleep deprivation, hunger, fatigue, emotion, distraction, stress from feeling rushed, and being in an unfamiliar environment. If you find yourself in any of these conditions, be on your guard! The emotion default is likely running the show. We’ll also explore the safeguards that can protect you in such situations.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>