<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 1.3: The Ego Default, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-8" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" role="doc-pagebreak" title="16"/>CHAPTER 1.3</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-13">The Ego Default</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Going back to <span class="co">The Godfather,</span> Carlo Rizzi is an example of a different default at work: the ego.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Carlo becomes a member of the Corleone family when he marries Vito’s daughter, Connie. As an outsider, he occupies a relatively low position in the social hierarchy. Full of pride and ego, he becomes increasingly frustrated by his marginal role in the family business. This frustration leads him to take some unforgivable actions.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">That’s just what happens in life sometimes; the ego default prompts us to promote and protect our self-image at all costs.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In Carlo’s case, being reminded of his low status in the family combines with his desire to defend his self-image (“<i>I can do more than the job I’m in, but they won’t give me more”</i>) and leads him to make the ultimate betrayal. Carlo never intended to tear the Corleone family apart from within. He just wanted a role in line with how he saw himself. The daily indignation of being treated as lesser set off a chain reaction he never intended.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_17" role="doc-pagebreak" title="17"/>Appearing Successful vs. Being Successful</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Not all confidence is created equally. Sometimes, it comes from a track record of applying deep knowledge successfully, and other times it comes from the shallowness of reading an article. It’s amazing how often the ego turns unearned knowledge into reckless confidence.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A little knowledge can be a dangerous thing, as one of my kids learned the hard way. Not wanting to write out his homework in French, which would take a lot of time and effort, he realized he could write it out in English and put it through an online translator. When I asked him how he finished so quickly, he told me it was easy and left it at that. Of course, his French teacher realized what he had done and gave him a zero.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Our ego tempts us into thinking we’re more than we are. Left unchecked, it can turn confidence into overconfidence or even arrogance. We get a bit of knowledge on the internet and suddenly we are full of hubris. Everything seems easy. As a result, we take risks that we may not understand we’re taking. We must resist this kind of unearned confidence, though, if we are to get the results we desire.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Recently, after a talk I attended on the growing homeless population, the person sitting next to me commented on how easy it would be to solve this deep and complex issue. He was intoxicated with a little unearned confidence, based on shallow understanding, so the problem seemed simple to him. However, those with competence based on hard-earned knowledge didn’t think the problem was simple at all. They were fully aware of the realities of the situation.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Unearned knowledge rushes us to judgment. “I’ve got this,” we think. We convince ourselves that low-chance events are zero-chance events and think only of best-case outcomes. We <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_18" role="doc-pagebreak" title="18"/>feel immune to bad luck—to the bad things that happen to other people, because of our newfound (and false) sense of confidence.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber4" id="SuperscriptNumber4" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Confidence doesn’t make bad outcomes any less likely or good outcomes more likely, it only blinds us to risk. The ego also makes us more concerned with maintaining or improving our perceived position in a social hierarchy than with extending our knowledge or skills.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One reason people find it hard to empower others at work is that having them depend on us for every decision makes us feel important and indispensable. Having them depend on us makes us feel not only necessary but powerful. The more people who depend on us the more powerful we feel. However, this position is often self-defeating. Slowly and then all at once we become a prisoner of the circumstances we created; more and more effort is needed to stay in the same place, and we approach the ceiling of brute force.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="50_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-009-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> It’s only a matter of time until things break.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The person who wants to be seen as great shows the world how to manipulate them. We’re prone to being less concerned with actual greatness than with exuding the appearance of greatness. When someone steps on how we see ourselves (or how we <i>want</i> to be seen), the ego leaps into action, and we often react without reasoning. Carlo Rizzi is a fictional example, but there are many real ones.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In September 1780, for instance, the American general Benedict Arnold secretly met a British spy. In exchange for £20,000 and a British military command, Arnold agreed to give the British control of the fort at West Point, which was then under his command.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_19" role="doc-pagebreak" title="19"/>What powerful force could make someone betray his country? Arnold’s reason was the same as Carlo Rizzi’s: long-harbored resentment about his social standing.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Arnold had been an accomplished military officer, but he wasn’t generally well-liked. He had a jealous disposition and frequently complained about Congress promoting younger, less competent officers ahead of him. He was quick to react to social slights, both real and imagined. And his tendency to prove his superiority by humiliating people with whom he disagreed created an invisible army of enemies.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">He nevertheless managed to earn the confidence of the Continental Army’s commander in chief, George Washington, who appointed Arnold military governor of Philadelphia. Around this time, Arnold sought the hand of Peggy Shippen, the daughter of a wealthy Philadelphia family.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The Shippens were loyalist sympathizers interested in making connections only with similarly wealthy people. Arnold, however, was not wealthy. His alcoholic father had squandered the family fortune when Arnold was a boy. Arnold had been trying to reestablish the family’s position in society ever since.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Arnold lived extravagantly, throwing lavish parties, with the hope of earning the respect of Philadelphia’s wealthy elite. He promised the Shippens that he would bestow on Peggy a large sum in advance of their wedding as proof of his financial means, and took out a large mortgage to purchase a mansion. When Arnold and Peggy were finally married, Arnold was deeply in debt. He and Peggy couldn’t even occupy that mansion because he needed to rent it out to pay the mortgage.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Arnold’s lifestyle caught the attention of his many enemies, including Pennsylvania’s unscrupulous president of the Supreme Executive Council, Joseph Reed. Reed built a flimsy case against Arnold which, it seemed, was more intended to <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_20" role="doc-pagebreak" title="20"/>disgrace the man publicly than anything else. It turned out, however, that Arnold had been using his position as military governor to benefit himself financially. Eventually, his case was brought before a court martial. General Washington gave Arnold only a light reprimand, yet Arnold felt that Washington had betrayed him.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A short while later, he would go on to betray his country.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Arnold’s pride had been wounded. He wanted to show others his value and importance. He wanted others to see him the way he saw himself. When they didn’t, he stopped exercising judgment, and ended up going down in history for all the wrong reasons.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Who hasn’t found themselves in a similar situation? Someone close to you doesn’t appreciate you the way you want to be appreciated. Perhaps they don’t see how insightful you are. Or maybe they don’t see how much you do for them. Desperate to satisfy the ego, either personally or professionally, you stop thinking and do things you otherwise wouldn’t, like approach a competitor or flirt with someone at a party. One example I’ve seen too many times in the workplace is when you stop putting in 100 percent of what you are capable of because you feel underappreciated.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="51_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-008-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> The ego grabs your unconscious, throws your long-term goals out the window, and sets you sailing on a path toward destruction.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If Arnold hadn’t been so consumed by ego—had he instead reacted less and reasoned more—he might have seen that his long-term political objectives and his family’s well-being demanded a more modest way of life.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_21" role="doc-pagebreak" title="21"/>Feeling Right over Being Right</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Our desire to feel right overpowers our desire to be right.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The ego default urges us to feel right at the expense of being right. Few things feel better than being right—so much so that we will unconsciously rearrange the world into arbitrary hierarchies to maintain our beliefs and feel better about ourselves. My first memory of doing so dates back to my days of working in a grocery store at age sixteen.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One particular customer would always treat the staff poorly. He’d drive up in his fancy car, park it illegally outside, and run in to get something. When there was a line, he’d rudely comment and raise his voice telling everyone to hurry up. We called him Mr. Rolex.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One day when he was waiting in my line, he told me to “hurry the f**k up because this Rolex doesn’t pay for itself.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I’ll leave my reply out but let’s just say that it cost me a job.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It was worth it, though, because the experience made me realize that some people organize their unconscious hierarchy by money and status. Those were the ways Mr. Rolex had of keeping the score to always come out on top.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I remember walking home that night thinking that while I might not have a job, at least I wasn’t like him. And at that moment I rearranged the world in such a way that I, the newly unemployed high school student without a car or a lavish wristwatch, came out on top. I had unconsciously organized the world in a way where I could be above him and feel better about myself.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Both of us reverted to the ego default that day.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Most people go through life assuming that they’re right . . . and that people who don’t see things their way are wrong.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber5" id="SuperscriptNumber5" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a> We mistake how we want the world to be with how it actually is. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_22" role="doc-pagebreak" title="22"/>The subject doesn’t matter: we’re right about politics, other people, our memories; you name it. We mistake how we want the world to work for how it does work.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Of course, we can’t be right about everything all the time. Everyone makes mistakes or misremembers some things. But we still want to <i>feel</i> right all the time, and ideally get other people to reinforce that feeling. Hence, we channel inordinate amounts of energy to proving to others—or ourselves—that we’re right. When this happens, we’re less concerned with outcomes and more concerned with protecting our egos.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Later I’ll discuss more about how to combat the ego default. For the time being, keep in mind how to recognize it when it rears its head. If you find yourself expending tremendous energy on how you are seen, if you often feel your pride being wounded, if you find yourself reading an article or two on a subject and thinking you’re an expert, if you always try to prove you’re right and have difficulty admitting mistakes, if you have a hard time saying “I don’t know,” or if you’re frequently envious of others or feel as though you’re never given the recognition you deserve—be on guard! Your ego is in charge.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>