<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 1.5: The Inertia Default, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-10" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-16"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_29" role="doc-pagebreak" title="29"/>CHAPTER 1.5</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-17">The Inertia Default</h2>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph">The great enemy of any attempt to change men’s habits is inertia. Civilization is limited by inertia.</p>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-Source">— EDWARD L. BERNAYS, <i class="_3-Ch-Epi-ITAL">Propaganda</i></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">In the mid-2000s, I invested a significant portion of my net worth into a small restaurant chain. A large investor had bought a controlling stake in the company and managed to turn around the operations, but those changes weren’t yet reflected in the company’s stock price. The CEO said and did all the right things. It was a compelling opportunity, so I went all in.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Over the subsequent years, however, the CEO’s attitude changed. What began as a fair partnership turned into a dictatorship. Like a pot of water coming to boil, the change was slow and hard to notice until, all of a sudden, it was boiling over.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I’d made multiples on the investment and believed in its <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_30" role="doc-pagebreak" title="30"/>future, so I was hesitant to exit the position too quickly—but eventually the facts became overwhelming, and I had to sell. After a bit of success, the ego default had taken control of the CEO. Suddenly all partners weren’t exactly equal, one was better than the rest.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="55_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-015-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Changing my mind took a while. Each transgression by the CEO was minor and easy to explain away. It was only after I’d stepped away from the situation and began viewing it with some perspective that I realized how far the behavior had gone. I was lucky to get out before it became apparent to everyone else—I came awfully close to losing a whole lot of money.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="56_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-014-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The inertia default pushes us to maintain the status quo. Starting something is hard but so too is stopping something.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber10" id="SuperscriptNumber10" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> We resist change even when change is for the best.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The Latin word <i>inertia</i> means literally “inertness”: that is, laziness or idleness. In physics, “inertia” refers to an object resisting a change in its state of motion. Hence, a popular way of stating Newton’s first law of motion—the law of inertia—is this: “A body in motion tends to stay in motion, and a body at rest tends to stay at rest.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Objects never change if they’re left alone. They don’t start moving on their own, nor do they stop moving till something stops them.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="57_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_3" id="footnote-013-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> This law of physics can also be applied to human behavior and our instinct to resist even beneficial change. The physicist Leonard Mlodinow sums it up this way: “Once our <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_31" role="doc-pagebreak" title="31"/>minds are set in a direction, they tend to continue in that direction unless acted upon by some outside force.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber11" id="SuperscriptNumber11" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a> This cognitive inertia is why changing our minds is hard.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Inertia keeps us in jobs we hate and in relationships that don’t make us happy, because in both cases we know what to expect and it’s comforting to have our expectations reliably met.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One reason we resist change is that keeping things the way they are requires almost no effort. This helps explain why we get complacent. It takes a lot of effort to build momentum but far less to maintain it. Once something becomes “good enough,” we can stop the effort and still get decent results. The inertia default leverages our desire to stay in our comfort zone, relying on old techniques or standards even when they’re no longer optimal.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Another reason we tend to push back against change is that doing something different might lead to worse results. There is an asymmetry to change—we take negative results to heart more than positive ones. Worse results make us stand out for the wrong reasons. Why risk looking like an idiot when you can remain average? We’d rather be average than risk the possibility of landing somewhere below average.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Inertia is evident in many of our daily habits, such as when we stick to the same grocery store brand even if a new, superior one appears on the market. This reluctance to try new products is often due to the uncertainty and effort involved in evaluating them. To combat this, companies often offer free samples to customers, which serves as a low-risk way for them to try a new product and evaluate its quality without the fear of disappointment.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We like to think we’re open-minded and willing to change our beliefs when the facts change, but history has shown <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_32" role="doc-pagebreak" title="32"/>otherwise. When the automobile was first introduced, many critics dismissed it as a mere fad, arguing that horses and carriages were a more reliable mode of transportation. Similarly, when the airplane was first invented, people were skeptical of its practicality and safety. The radio, television, and internet all faced similar initial skepticism, yet despite this, each of these inventions has had a profound impact on the way we live today.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The “zone of average” is a dangerous place when it comes to inertia. It’s the point where things are working well enough that we don’t feel the need to make any changes. We hope things will magically improve. Of course, they rarely do. For example, staying in a relationship that is too good to leave and too bad to stay is a perfect example of the zone of average. If things were much worse, we would act, but since they’re not terrible, we stay, and hope things get better.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Doubling Down When You’re Wrong</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">As the famous quote often falsely attributed to Charles Darwin goes, “It’s not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that is most adaptable to change.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber12" id="SuperscriptNumber12" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[3]</a> Even though it’s a misquotation, it’s not useless just because it’s not Darwin.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When circumstances change, we need to adapt. But inertia closes minds and stifles the motivation to change how we’ve been doing things. It makes it harder to imagine alternative methods, and discourages experimentation and course correction.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">For instance, public statements can create inertia. Putting something on the record establishes expectations along with social pressure to meet those expectations. When new information challenges one of our statements, we might instinctively dismiss <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_33" role="doc-pagebreak" title="33"/>it and emphasize the old information that supported it. We want to be consistent with what we said. Changing our minds becomes increasingly difficult. We witness how, say, people label a politician a “flip-flopper” instead of “intelligent” when they change their position in response to the facts, and our fear of the social implications of changing our minds continues to grow.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Inertia also prevents us from doing hard things. The longer we avoid the hard thing we know we should do, the harder it becomes to do. Avoiding conflict is comfortable and easy. The longer we avoid the conflict, however, the more necessary it becomes to continue avoiding it. What starts out as avoiding a small but difficult conversation quickly grows into avoiding a large and seemingly impossible one. The weight of what we avoid eventually affects our relationship.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Groups create inertia of their own. They tend to value consistency over effectiveness, and reward people for maintaining the status quo. Inertia makes deviating from group norms difficult. The threat of standing out in a negative way too often keeps people in line. As a result, group dynamics end up favoring people who don’t deviate from the defaults.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Group inertia is partly responsible for why a friend of mine, and I suspect a host of others, got married in the first place. According to him, in hindsight, “All the signs were there that it might not work out, but it seemed like a lot to start over with someone new, and everyone around us was getting engaged, so that’s what we did.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The influence of inertia isn’t just troubling in our work and relationships, it can also be bad for our health. In 1910, America’s leading expert on industrial toxicology, Alice Hamilton, was appointed to head a survey on industrial illness in the state of Illinois. Over the next few years, she provided definitive <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_34" role="doc-pagebreak" title="34"/>evidence of the dangers of lead exposure in the workplace and of lead-tainted exhaust fumes from automobiles. But despite the evidence, General Motors and other car manufacturers continued producing lead-fueled vehicles. It wasn’t until the 1980s that the US finally banned leaded fuel. Even today, lead continues to be used for other applications, despite the availability of nontoxic options at a similar price.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber13" id="SuperscriptNumber13" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[4]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Inertia keeps us doing things that don’t get us what we want. It operates in our subconscious largely undetected until its effects are too hard to counter. Later I’ll discuss more examples of the inertia default at work and how to combat it. For the time being keep the following in mind: if you find yourself biting your tongue in group situations, if you find yourself or your team resisting change or continuing to do something in one way simply because that’s how you’ve always done it in the past—be on your guard! The inertia default is likely at work.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>