<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2.1: Self-Accountability, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-13" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-22"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_43" role="doc-pagebreak" title="43"/>CHAPTER 2.1</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-23">Self-Accountability</h2>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph">I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul.</p>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-Source">—W. E. HENLEY, “INVICTUS”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Self-accountability means taking responsibility for your abilities, your inabilities, and your actions. If you can’t do that, you might never move forward.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You might not have someone in your life who holds you accountable, but that doesn’t matter. You can hold yourself accountable. Others might not expect more from you, but you can expect more from yourself. No one else need reward or punish you into it.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">External rewards are nice, but they’re optional; you don’t need them to do your best. Your honest judgments about yourself are more important than anyone else’s. And when you screw up, you should be strong enough to look in the mirror and say, “This was my fault. I need to do better.” While you <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_44" role="doc-pagebreak" title="44"/>may never have asked for it, you’re in charge of your own life—and a larger part of your outcomes than you may think.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">People who lack self-accountability tend to run on autopilot. This is the exact opposite of commanding your own life. These people constantly succumb to external pressure: seeking rewards, avoiding punishments, and measuring themselves against other people’s scoreboards. They’re followers, not leaders. They don’t take responsibility for their mistakes. Instead, they always try to blame other people, circumstances, or bad luck—nothing’s ever their fault.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Well, I have news for you. It’s all your fault.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There is always something you can do in the moment today to better your position tomorrow. You might not be able to solve the problem, but your next action will make the situation better or worse. There is always an action you can control, however tiny, that helps you achieve progress.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Excuses, Excuses</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-FL">Complaining is not a strategy. You have to work with the world as you find it, not as you would have it be.</p>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-Source">—JEFF BEZOS<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber14" id="SuperscriptNumber14" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">One Sunday morning early in my career, I arrived at work to find a colleague of mine already there. We were working on a critical piece of software for an upcoming covert operation. He approached me shortly after I sat down at my desk.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“That code you were writing was supposed to be done two days ago,” he said. “The operation is tonight, and we can’t go without you. We still have to test. You’ve put the whole thing in jeopardy. People are relying on us.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In the post-9/11 world, we were all working nonstop and <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_45" role="doc-pagebreak" title="45"/>were under a lot of pressure. No one was sleeping more than five or six hours a night. Our health was questionable as we injected ourselves with coffee and Jolt cola once or twice an hour.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We were writing complex, mission-critical software at the lowest levels of the operating system—difficult stuff even in the best of circumstances. There was no manual for this stuff, and you couldn’t simply Google how to do it.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We were breaking new ground. The time pressure didn’t help. We were doing all we could, yet it never seemed like enough. And after years of sixty-hour workweeks and constant pressure, our personal and professional relationships were strained and starting to crack.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">My response felt completely natural: “But . . . I had all of these meetings and got pulled into this other project the director said was top priority. And . . . I planned to work on it Friday morning, but the bus got stuck in the snow, and it took two hours to get to work.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I thought I kept my composure pretty well, but my inner dialogue was even more defensive. It went something like this: “Dude! Cut me some slack. It’s Sunday. I haven’t had a vacation in years. I spend way more time with you than with my girlfriend. I’m doing the best I can, and nothing I do ever seems to be enough.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“So, you’re telling me this wasn’t your fault?” he said innocently, setting a trap I didn’t see.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Look, a lot of stuff came up that I couldn’t control,” I said. “Don’t worry. I’ll get it done today.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“That’s bullshit! It is your fault. Stop making excuses.” He turned his back and started walking away. “Do what needs to be done, or we’ll have to call off the operation because of you,” he said without a backward glance.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_46" role="doc-pagebreak" title="46"/>I suddenly felt energized, and not with the positive energy of surging toward a goal. The defaults took control. This was ego-defending energy. I was defending my territory, defending my very sense of self.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There’s no greater source of renewable energy in the world than when you’re defending your own self-image. While my colleague didn’t threaten me physically, he threatened how I saw myself as working hard and getting things done. And when someone threatens how you see yourself, you stop thinking and start reacting.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I began writing up a list of all the things I’d done that week—how many hours I’d worked, how many projects I’d worked on, how many people and operations I’d helped. As I rehearsed these points, I got angrier and angrier. The inertia of my negative emotions turned into a powerful doom loop. I wasn’t conscious of the path I was on. I was reacting, not reasoning. My power to make excuses felt limitless: “Who is this guy to tell me it’s my fault?! He doesn’t see what I see!”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I emailed him the list. It filled over a page. His response arrived a few moments later:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x06-E-mail-Text-First">I don’t care. It’s your responsibility to our team and our mission to get your shit done. If you can’t own that, learn from it, and figure it out for next time. I don’t want to work with you.</p>
				<p class="x06-E-mail">PS Don’t blame the bus for being late. Buy a car.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">WTF!?!! My response moved beyond mental and became physical. My heart rate increased, and my eyes narrowed as I <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_47" role="doc-pagebreak" title="47"/>lost control of my feelings and thoughts. That short email derailed me for a few hours.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">All the energy we put into defending ourselves comes at the expense of the very thing that would make the situation better: moving on and doing what needs to be done. It’s a choice we don’t realize we’re making. Had someone tapped me on the shoulder and said, “You’re about to spend three hours of energy on this, are you sure you want to do that?” I would have said no.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">While that email was neither nice nor fair, it was kind and it changed my life. Sure, my colleague could’ve been gentler.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="59_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-021-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> But that didn’t mean he was wrong.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Too often, the people we ask for feedback are kind but not nice. Kind people will tell you things a nice person will not. A kind person will tell you that you have spinach on your teeth. A nice person won’t because it’s uncomfortable. A kind person will tell us what holds us back even when it’s uncomfortable. A nice person avoids giving us critical feedback because they’re worried about hurting out feelings. No wonder we end up thinking other people will be interested in our excuses.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="60_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-020-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">My team was unmoved by the fact that the bus was late and it wasn’t my fault. All that mattered was the success of the operation. And results are what it usually boils down to.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">No one cares about your excuses as much as you do. In fact, no one cares about your excuses at all, except you.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_48" role="doc-pagebreak" title="48"/>No One Cares. It’s Your Fault</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">When people’s actions have outcomes that don’t line up with how they see themselves, they tend to insulate their egos by blaming other people or unfavorable circumstances. Psychologists even have a term for this tendency. They call it <i>self-serving bias</i>, a habit of evaluating things in ways that protect or enhance our self-image. Statements like “It was a great idea just poorly executed,” “We did the best we could,” and “We never should’ve been in this situation in the first place” are often manifestations of this bias.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="61_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_3" id="footnote-019-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Here’s the thing: It might be true. Maybe it really wasn’t a bad idea, just bad execution. Maybe you really did do the best you could. Maybe you never should have been in that situation in the first place. Unfortunately, it doesn’t matter. No one cares. None of it changes the outcome or solves the problems that still remain.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Not Your Fault? It’s Still Your Responsibility</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Just because something happened that was outside of your control doesn’t mean it’s not your responsibility to deal with it the best you can.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Our desire to protect ourselves prevents us from moving forward. It’s tempting to absolve yourself, throwing your hands up and claiming you have no control over the situation you’ve landed in. And sure, sometimes that’s true. There are circumstances of chance that have a negative impact. People suffer <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_49" role="doc-pagebreak" title="49"/>misfortune all the time for reasons beyond their control: stray bullets, diseases, getting struck by a drunk driver.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Complaining does nothing to change the present situation you find yourself in, though. Thinking about how it wasn’t your fault doesn’t make anything better. The consequences are still yours to deal with.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Always focus on the next move, the one that gets you closer or further from where you want to go.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you play poker, you learn this intuitively. You’re dealt a hand based mostly on luck. Feeling sorry for yourself, complaining about the hand you were dealt, or blaming others for how they played their hands only distracts you from what you can control. Your responsibility is to play the hand as best you can.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can put energy into things you control or things you don’t control. All the energy you put toward things you don’t control comes out of the energy you can put toward the things you can.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">While no one chooses difficult circumstances, adversity provides opportunity. It allows us to test ourselves, and see who we’ve become. The test isn’t against other people, though; it’s against our former selves. Are we better than we were yesterday? When circumstances are easy, it’s hard to distinguish ordinary people from extraordinary ones, or to see the extraordinary within ourselves. As the Roman slave Publilius Syrus once said, “Anyone can steer the ship when the sea is calm.”<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="62_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_4" id="footnote-018-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The path to being exceptional begins when you decide to be responsible for your actions no matter the situation. Exceptional people know they can’t change the hand they’ve been <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_50" role="doc-pagebreak" title="50"/>dealt, and don’t waste time wishing for a better one. They focus instead on how they’re going to play the cards they have to achieve the best result. They don’t hide behind others. The best people rise to the challenge—whatever it is. They choose to live up to their best self-image instead of surrendering to their defaults.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One of the most common mistakes people make is bargaining with how the world should work instead of accepting how it does work. Anytime you find yourself or your colleagues complaining “that’s not right,” or “that’s not fair,” or “it shouldn’t be that way,” you’re bargaining, not accepting. You want the world to work in a way that it doesn’t.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Failing to accept how the world really works puts your time and energy toward proving how right you are. When the desired results don’t materialize, it’s easy to blame circumstances or others. I call this the wrong side of right. You’re focused on your ego not the outcome.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Solutions appear when you stop bargaining and start accepting the reality of the situation. That’s because focusing on the next move, rather than how you got here in the first place, opens you up to a lot of possibilities. When you put outcome over ego, you get better results.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">How You Respond Can Always Make Things Better or Worse</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">You can’t control everything, but you can control your response, which makes circumstances better or worse. Each response has an impact on the future, taking you either a step closer to or a step further from the outcomes you want and the person you want to be.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One effective question to ask yourself before you act is, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_51" role="doc-pagebreak" title="51"/>“Will this action make the future easier or harder?”<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="63_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_5" id="footnote-017-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> This surprisingly simple question helps change your perspective on the situation and avoid making things worse. As my grandfather (and many others) used to say, “If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing you need to do is stop digging.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One day in my mid-twenties, I found myself in my mentor’s office. I had missed out on a promotion—the first one I’d been up for and failed to get—and I was complaining to him about how unfair it was.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Why is this happening to me?” I remember saying. “Is someone trying to send me a message?” I started talking trash about the person who’d made the decision, when my mentor cut me off.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“You’re refusing to accept something that already happened,” he said. “And that’s crazy.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Crazy?” I replied.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Yes. It’s already happened. You can’t argue with it.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Listen,” he continued, “it really sucks. You’re more than qualified. But you didn’t get it, and there is a reason you didn’t get it. The key here is to stop blaming others and take ownership.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I let his point sink in. He was right. The world didn’t just <i>happen</i> to me. It wasn’t out to get me. I needed to look inside myself, honestly assess what I’d contributed to this outcome, and update my way of doing things.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">As I left my mentor’s office, the implication was clear. If I couldn’t learn self-accountability, I wasn’t going to go very far.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_52" role="doc-pagebreak" title="52"/>Complaining Is Not a Solution</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Facing reality is hard. It’s much easier to blame things we have no control over than look for our own contributions.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Too often we fight against the feedback the world gives us, to protect our beliefs. Rather than changing ourselves, we want the world to change. And if we don’t have the power to change it, we do the only thing we feel we can do: complain.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Complaining isn’t productive. It only misleads you into thinking that the world should function in a way that it doesn’t. Distancing yourself from reality makes it harder to solve the problems you face. There is always something you can do today to make the future easier, though, and the moment you stop complaining is the moment you start finding it.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">You Are Not a Victim</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The most important story is the one you tell yourself. While telling yourself a positive story doesn’t ensure a good outcome, telling yourself a negative story often guarantees a bad one.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Each of us is the hero of the story we tell ourselves about ourselves. Being at fault when things go wrong doesn’t suit the hero status we ascribe to ourselves. So, when it comes to explaining why things went wrong, we look for someone else to blame.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">While pointing fingers when we don’t get the results we want might satisfy us in the moment, it doesn’t give us better judgment, and it doesn’t make us better people. It’s instead a defensive reaction prompted by our ego default—a reaction that keeps us nestled in the arms of weakness and fragility.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you constantly blame circumstances, the environment, or other people, you are effectively claiming that you had little ability to affect the outcome. But that’s not what <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_53" role="doc-pagebreak" title="53"/>actually happened. The truth is that we make repeated choices in life that become habits, those habits determine our paths, and those paths determine our outcomes. When we explain away those unwanted outcomes, we absolve ourselves of any responsibility for producing them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There’s a word for people who always respond to problems by blaming others or circumstances: <i>victims</i>. Of course, they’re often not actually victims. They just feel like they are, and that feeling gets in the way of good judgment. Chronic victims feel helpless, powerless, and often hopeless. Nothing is ever their fault; it is always someone or something else that got in the way. No one begins life wanting to be a chronic victim, but the slow accumulation of responses that avoid responsibility makes it hard for people to see that’s what they’re becoming. Eventually, it’s just who they are.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There are points in the process of becoming a chronic victim when people realize they’re lying to themselves. They realize the story they’re telling themselves isn’t quite true. They know they’re responsible. But facing reality and taking responsibility is hard. It’s uncomfortable. It’s so much easier to hide and to blame other people, circumstances, or luck.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Ironically, the people who care the most about chronic victims often unintentionally encourage their blame game. When things don’t go our way, it’s natural to vent to family members or close friends. They’re loving and supportive and have the best intentions for us. They would love to validate our interpretation of the situation, and offer us relief. But when they do that, nothing has changed. Our incorrect view of the world remains intact. They don’t encourage us to re-evaluate our patterns of thinking, feeling, and acting. And if we’re thrust into similar circumstances later on, we’ll likely respond the same way and get the same disappointing results.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_54" role="doc-pagebreak" title="54"/>On the other hand, have you ever had a friend tell you, “You messed up pretty bad there. How can I help you make this right?” or “Let me tell you the one thing I think is holding you back from getting the results you want”?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you have a friend like that, call them now and thank them. Their presence in your life is a rare gift. Cherish it!</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Or perhaps one of your parents has done that for you. When I was thirteen years old, I was standing with a group of my friends after school. They were teasing one of our classmates and I was watching. The teachers intervened before things got out of control, and it ended as quickly as it began. I didn’t realize, however, that my father was parked nearby, watching. When I got in the car, he asked me what had happened.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Nothing,” I said. My father looked at me with that parental look I now give my own kids. “We were just giving the guy a bit of a hard time,” I said.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Why?” he asked.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Everyone was doing it. It wasn’t serious. Relax.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">He stopped the car in the middle of the road, and gave me that look again.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“You chose to be there, and you chose not to stop it,” he said. “You can’t do stuff just because everyone else is doing it and expect to get a free pass. You’re responsible for your choices. You’re better than you were in that moment.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Then he didn’t say another word to me until the next day.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The lesson was an important one: the things you choose not to do often matter as much as the things you choose to do. The real test of a person is the degree to which they are willing to nonconform to do the right thing.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It took a while for me to realize that he was more disappointed in me for not stopping the others than for being there <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_55" role="doc-pagebreak" title="55"/>in the first place.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber15" id="SuperscriptNumber15" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a> He didn’t want me to become a passive person—the kind of person whose behavior is dictated by the people and events around him. He didn’t want me to become a chronic victim of circumstances.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">No successful person wants to work with a chronic victim. The only people who want to work with victims are other victims.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you pay attention to chronic victims, you’ll notice how fragile they are—how dependent their attitudes and feelings are on things they don’t control. When things go their way, they’re happy; when things don’t, they’re defensive, passive-aggressive, and occasionally <i>aggressive</i>-aggressive. If their spouse is in a bad mood, they’re in a bad mood too. If they hit traffic on the way to work, they bring their anger and frustration to work with them. If a project they’re leading isn’t on track, they blame someone on their team.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Self-accountability is the strength of realizing that even though you don’t control everything, you do control how you respond to everything. It’s a mindset that empowers you to act and not just react to whatever life throws at you. It transforms obstacles into opportunities for learning and growth. It means realizing that the way you respond to hardship matters more to your happiness than the hardship itself. And it means understanding that the best path is often just to accept things and move on.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>