<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2.4: Self-Confidence, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-16" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-28"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_62" role="doc-pagebreak" title="62"/>CHAPTER 2.4</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-29">Self-Confidence</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Self-confidence is about trusting in your abilities and your value to others.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You need self-confidence to think independently and to stand firm in the face of social pressure, ego, inertia, or emotion. You need it to understand that not all results are immediate, and to focus on doing what it takes to earn them eventually.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Children develop self-confidence when they learn simple skills like pulling up a zipper, tying their shoes, or riding a bike. Eventually, that self-confidence evolves and propels them to develop more complex abilities as adults—for instance, writing software, painting murals, or cheering up a disheartened friend.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Self-confidence empowers resilience in the aftermath of negative feedback, and adaptability in the face of changing circumstances. You know what your abilities are and how they add value, whether other people appreciate them or not. If you’ve forged a healthy sense of self-confidence, it will see you through whatever emerging challenges and difficulties come your way.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_63" role="doc-pagebreak" title="63"/>Confidence vs. Ego</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Self-confidence is what empowers you to execute difficult decisions and develop self-knowledge. While the ego tries to prevent you from acknowledging any deficiencies you may have, self-confidence gives you the strength to acknowledge those deficiencies. This is how you learn humility.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Confidence without humility is generally the same thing as overconfidence—a weakness, not a strength. Confident people have the strength to admit weaknesses and vulnerabilities, to acknowledge that other people might be better at something than they are, and to ask when they need help.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s only human to have doubts about whether you are up to a given task. Even the most capable people have doubts about this from time to time. But those who have self-confidence never give in to feelings of despair or worthlessness. That’s just another ego trap. Instead, confident people stay focused on completing the task at hand, even if it involves relying on the help of others to do so. Every successful task only further serves to deepen your trust in yourself, and that’s how confidence is earned.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Confidence also Comes from How You Talk to Yourself</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">More dreams die from a lack of confidence than a lack of competence. But while confidence is often a byproduct of our accomplishments, it also comes from how you talk to yourself.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">That little voice in your head may whisper its doubts, but it should also remind you of the many hardships and challenges you’ve overcome in the past and the fact that you persevered. No matter who you are, you’ve given that little voice many <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_64" role="doc-pagebreak" title="64"/>positive moments to speak of. You learned to walk, despite falling down thousands of times. Maybe you failed a test at first, but then figured out what went wrong, and nailed it the next time. Perhaps you were fired, but moved on and ended up in a better position as a result. Maybe your relationship ended or your business failed or you were scared the first time you put on skis—whatever it was, you overcame it, moved past it, and you’re stronger as a result.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s important to talk to yourself about the adversity you’ve faced, because past hardship is where you get the confidence to face future hardship.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When I took my youngest son cliff jumping, we faced a serious dilemma. After reaching the top and looking down at the twenty-five-foot drop, he got scared and wanted to climb back down. That wasn’t possible, however, because the climb down was far more dangerous than the jump—one small error and he would have landed on a bed of sharp rocks. The more he looked down, the more nervous he became. I had to do something to help him help himself out of this situation.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The first thing we did was to focus on our breathing. Your breath is a powerful tool that helps you calm your mind. We started taking a normal inhale and then immediately inhaling again with a smaller breath. It’s the same way we naturally breathe when we’re sobbing, and the results are similarly soothing. Only once we had relaxed our physical bodies could we change our inner dialogue.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I asked him how he was talking to himself at that moment—and it wasn’t good. He was beating himself up, telling himself how dumb it had been to climb up in the first place, how he should have known better, and how scared he was. This is the same way we all tend to talk to ourselves sometimes—or at least it is in my experience.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_65" role="doc-pagebreak" title="65"/>The second thing we did was change the conversation he was having inside his head. We know how the words we say to other people impact how they feel, but we rarely think of how the words we say to ourselves impact us. I asked him to list off some of the things he’d already done that he had feared before doing them. The question was barely out of my mouth when he started to tell me about snowboarding and the time we “mistakenly” ended up on a double black diamond and the first time he went wakeboarding. The list went on. There was no shortage of situations he’d been in that had required courage.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Once he realized he had done difficult things before for the first time, he went back to focusing on his breathing. Then he jumped. Within seconds, he emerged from the water, and I could see his huge smile as he climbed back up for round two.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">People who are confident aren’t afraid of facing reality because they know they can handle it. Confident people don’t care what other people think about them, aren’t afraid of standing out, and are willing to risk looking like an idiot while they try something new. They’ve been beaten down and rebuilt themselves enough times to know that they can do it again if they have to. Crucially, they also know that to outperform the crowd, you have to do things differently sometimes, and that hecklers and naysayers inevitably tend to follow. They take their feedback from reality, not popular opinion.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The most important voice to listen to is the one that reminds you of all that you’ve accomplished in the past. And while you might not have done this particular thing before, you can figure it out.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_66" role="doc-pagebreak" title="66"/>Confidence and Honesty</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Self-confidence is also the strength to accept hard truths. We all have to deal with the world as it is, not as we want it to be. The quicker you stop denying inconvenient truths and start responding to difficult realities, the better.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We all have something that we’re denying right now because accepting it is hard, and we want to avoid the pain. Maybe you’re in a dead-end job or you’re about to go bankrupt, or you’re holding an investment that you have trouble admitting didn’t work out. The quicker you accept reality, though, the quicker you can deal with the implications, and the sooner you do that, the easier those implications are to manage. Most of the time, needing to wait for the right moment to do a hard thing is just an excuse: a way to rationalize putting off what needs to be done. There is no perfect moment.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber16" id="SuperscriptNumber16" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> There’s only the desire to continue waiting for one.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">People with self-confidence are honest about their own motivations, actions, and results. They recognize when the voice in their head might be ignoring reality. They also listen to the feedback the world gives them, instead of shopping around for other opinions.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The internet makes it easy to find people who agree with us no matter what we believe. Want to deny the Holocaust? There’s a group for that. Think vaccines cause autism? Many others do as well. Heck, we <i>still</i> have a flat-earth society, whose membership spans around the globe.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can quickly and easily be surrounded by people who share the same delusions. That doesn’t make them true. Reality isn’t a popularity contest. Surrounding yourself with people who tell you you’re right doesn’t mean you are. And once you <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_67" role="doc-pagebreak" title="67"/>dive into the warm water of group acceptance, it’s hard to get back out. The social default strikes again!</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The groups we surround ourselves with encourage us to think the problem is with the world and not with us. We think we are right and everyone else is wrong, denying reality at the expense of the energy and focus we need to adapt and improve. We do this because it feels more comfortable than accepting reality, even though it’s only after we accept reality that we can attempt to change it. And we continue wondering, deep down, why we aren’t getting the results we want. We wonder why some people get better results than we do, and what they’re doing differently.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I was taking a stroll one day with the CEO of a large public company, when we started discussing how he hired people for key roles.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I asked, “If you could pick one trait that would predict how someone would turn out, what would it be?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“That’s easy,” he said. “How willing they are to change their mind about what they think they know.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The most valuable people, he continued, weren’t the ones with the best initial ideas, but the ones with the ability to quickly change their minds. They were focused on outcome over ego. By contrast, he said, the people most likely to fail were those obsessed with minute details that supported their point of view.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“They’re too focused on proving they’re right instead of being right,” he said.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">As I mentioned previously in the chapter on self-accountability, this is what I call <i>the wrong side of right</i>. It’s what happens when otherwise smart people confuse the best outcome with the best outcome for them personally.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber17" id="SuperscriptNumber17" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_68" role="doc-pagebreak" title="68"/>In order to be right, you must be willing to change your mind. If you’re not willing to change your mind, you’re going to be wrong a lot. The people who frequently find themselves on the wrong side of right are people who can’t zoom in and out and see the problem from multiple angles. They get locked into one perspective: their own. When you can’t see a problem from multiple points of view, you have blind spots. And blind spots get you in trouble.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Admitting you’re wrong isn’t a sign of weakness, it’s a sign of strength. Admitting that someone has a better explanation than you shows that you’re adaptable. Facing reality takes courage. It takes courage to revise your ideas, or rethink something you thought you knew. It takes courage to tell yourself something is not working. It takes courage to accept feedback that bruises your self-image.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The challenge of facing reality is ultimately the challenge of facing ourselves. We must acknowledge the things we cannot control and focus our efforts to manage the things we can. Facing reality demands acknowledging our mistakes and failures, learning from them, and moving forward.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">The Wrong Side of Right</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Once, in New York, after I’d given a talk on making effective decisions, a woman in the audience came up to me with a question. The event had run late and I really had to get to the airport, which I apologetically informed her. In response, she offered to have her driver take me to the airport, if she could pick my brain along the way.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="64_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-023-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_69" role="doc-pagebreak" title="69"/>As we got into the car, she started telling me about a very difficult problem she was wrestling with. She was one of two candidates to become the next CEO of her organization and felt like the problem she was facing would make or break her chances. She walked me through the details and told me her proposed solution. Although it sounded as though her idea would indeed solve the problem, it was complicated and full of execution risk. But there was an alternative—a solution that was simpler, lower cost, and carried less risk. It was objectively a better solution. The only problem was that it was her rival’s.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">As she detailed some of her thinking, she spent a lot of time and effort defending herself, trying to prove her solution was the better one. She only succeeded in making it clear that she knew her own solution wasn’t the best. She was on the wrong side of right. She just didn’t want to admit it.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Many people feel the same way: they think they’ll be worthless if they’re not right. I myself used to feel the same way. Rather than let her figure out her mistake the hard way, I shared some of the harsh and expensive lessons I’d learned about that mindset and about being on the wrong side of right.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I told her that for the longest time, I thought if the best idea wasn’t my idea, I’d be nothing. I thought that no one would see me as valuable, that no one would see me as insightful, that I wouldn’t be contributing anything. I had my identity wrapped up in being right.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It wasn’t until I began running a business that I realized how wrong I’d been. When everything is on your shoulders and the cost of being wrong is high, I told her, you tend to focus on what’s right instead of who’s right. The more I’d given up wanting to be right, the better the outcomes I had. I didn’t care about getting the credit; I cared about getting the results.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“If you owned 100 percent of this company and couldn’t <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_70" role="doc-pagebreak" title="70"/>sell it for one hundred years,” I asked her, “which solution would you prefer?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There was a long pause before she answered.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“I know what I need to do,” she said. “Thank you.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A few months later, my phone rang. It was her.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="65_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-022-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“You won’t believe what happened!” she said. “I got the CEO job thanks in part to your help. It was a tough pill to swallow, but I ended up supporting my rival’s solution, and that’s what ended up tipping the scales in my favor. When the board saw that I could put aside my ego and do what was best for the company—even if it meant supporting someone competing with me for the same role—they knew I was the right person.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Self-confidence is the strength to focus on what’s right instead of who’s right. It’s the strength to face reality. It’s the strength to admit mistakes, and the strength to change your mind. Self-confidence is what it takes to be on the right side of right.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Outcome over ego.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>