<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2.5: Strength in Action, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-17" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-30"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_71" role="doc-pagebreak" title="71"/>CHAPTER 2.5</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-31">Strength in Action</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Self-accountability, self-knowledge, self-control, and self-confidence are essential to exercising good judgment. Here are a couple examples of how they work together.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Example 1: Going against the Norm</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Most people who work for a three-letter agency end up staying there for their entire career. Why wouldn’t you? Great salaries, a pension indexed to inflation, and a mission-focused organization full of incredibly smart and dedicated people.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When I told one of my colleagues I was quitting, they looked at me with surprise. They told me about all the risks, how I’d lose my golden pension and my benefits. They focused on what I was losing, not what I was gaining: mainly, the freedom of my time.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Leaving this job illustrates the four strengths in action. I had the self-confidence that I could figure out what came next without needing to know all the details, the self-knowledge to know that I valued time over money, the self-control to get up <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_72" role="doc-pagebreak" title="72"/>the next day without missing a beat, and the self-accountability to set a higher standard for performance than I ever had before.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Without self-knowledge, I never would have known what made me happy. Without self-confidence, I never would have left. Without self-accountability and self-control, I probably would have known what to work on, but I would have filled my days with easy busywork instead of the activities that moved me forward.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Example 2: Resisting the Social Default</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Suppose you know from experience that you’re susceptible to social pressure. On numerous occasions, for instance, you’ve been cajoled into buying things you didn’t want from pushy salespeople, and you’ve agreed to take on jobs you didn’t have the bandwidth for by pushy colleagues. You don’t trust yourself to do better in the future using sheer willpower alone.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">To protect yourself from the influence of the social default, you decide to implement a safeguard. You form a rule for yourself: never say yes to something important without thinking it over for a day.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Practicing this safeguard isn’t very enjoyable. Putting someone on hold for a day might be uncomfortable in the moment, but the long-term results of implementing this safeguard are worth it. As simple as they seem, automatic rules for common situations get results. We’ll explore automatic rules in the next chapter.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Implementing this plan illustrates all four of the strengths I’ve mentioned. Knowing your vulnerability to social pressure and the limits of your power to resist it requires self-knowledge. Deciding to do something about this vulnerability to secure better outcomes involves self-confidence. Following the rule <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_73" role="doc-pagebreak" title="73"/>you’ve made for yourself takes self-accountability. And overcoming short-term discomfort in ordinary moments for long-term gain displays self-control.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="66_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-024-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">All four of these strengths are necessary for resisting the influence of the social default. Once you have them all working together, you’ll be amazed at what you can accomplish. Now let’s take a look at how to build those strengths.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>