<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2.6: Setting the Standards, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-18" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-32"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_74" role="doc-pagebreak" title="74"/>CHAPTER 2.6</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-33">Setting the Standards</h2>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph">It is inevitable if you enter into relations with people on a regular basis . . . that you will grow to be like them. . . . Place an extinguished piece of coal next to a live one, and either it will cause the other one to die out, or the live one will make the other reignite. . . . Remember that if you consort with someone covered in dirt you can hardly avoid getting a little grimy yourself.</p>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-Source">—EPICTETUS, <i class="_3-Ch-Epi-ITAL">Discourses</i></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">The first step to building any of your strengths is raising the standards to which you hold yourself, a practical matter of looking around at the people and practices that pervade your day-to-day environment.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Our surroundings influence us—both our physical <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_75" role="doc-pagebreak" title="75"/>environment and the people around us. Few things are more important in life than avoiding the wrong people. It’s tempting to think that we are strong enough to avoid adopting the worst of others, but that’s not how it typically works.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We unconsciously become what we’re near. If you work for a jerk, sooner or later you’ll become one yourself. If your colleagues are selfish, sooner or later you become selfish. If you hang around someone who’s unkind, you’ll slowly become unkind. Little by little, you adopt the thoughts and feelings, the attitudes and standards of the people around you. The changes are too gradual to notice until they’re too large to address.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Becoming like the people around you means that over time you come to adopt their standards. If all you see are average people, you will end up with average standards. But average standards aren’t going to get you where you want to go. Standards become habits, and habits become outcomes. Few people realize that exceptional outcomes are almost always achieved by people with higher-than-average standards.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The most successful people have the highest standards, not only for others but for themselves. For instance, when I was once sent to a remote location to work, I remember standing up in a meeting to explain how some element of an operation worked. After a few moments, another person, who was widely recognized as <i>the</i> expert in this specialty, interrupted and asked me to stop talking until I knew what I was talking about. Then he got up and explained it in more detail than I thought possible. After the meeting I went to his office and talked to him. He explained that while he didn’t know what it was like where I was from, the standard here was you don’t speak unless you know what you’re talking about.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_76" role="doc-pagebreak" title="76"/>Champions don’t create the standards of excellence. The standards of excellence create champions.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="67_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-025-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">High standards are consistent across top performers. When you look at any athlete or team that performs on a level beyond what you can explain by luck or talent, you find a commitment to high standards. The New England Patriots and their coach Bill Belichick have won more games over a twenty-year span than any other NFL team. Not only that, but they also did it with a salary cap designed to level the playing field and make dynasties like theirs impossible. When all-star cornerback Darrelle Revis, who was the best in the game at his position, was a few minutes late for a practice one day, Coach Belichick sent him home immediately.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber18" id="SuperscriptNumber18" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> Belichick didn’t make a big deal about it, but he was firm. Revis wouldn’t be treated differently from other players. Coach didn’t care what star players got away with on other teams. Revis was a New England Patriot, and he had to rise to the team’s standards.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The best teachers expect more from their students and from themselves. And more often than not, the students rise to meet those expectations. The best leaders expect more from people; they hold them to the same standards they hold themselves—a higher standard than most would otherwise know is possible.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Smart People with Low Standards</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The difference between average and exceptional results for a leader often comes down to whether they’re consistently getting more out of smart but otherwise lazy people. I once found <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_77" role="doc-pagebreak" title="77"/>myself working with one such fellow. I’d recently been promoted, and he sent me a draft asking for my “guidance and feedback.” The draft was terrible and full of obvious flaws. It wasn’t his best work. I knew it. And he knew it.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you work in a large organization, I’m sure something similar has happened to you. Someone creates a half-assed draft of something that’s full of poor thinking, sends it around, and waits for others to correct it. This tactic takes advantage of one of our defaults: we love correcting people. If someone does something wrong, we almost can’t help but tell them how to do it the right way. So you do the work, and they get the credit in a fraction of the time it would’ve taken them to do it themselves. Smart. But lazy.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I didn’t want to spend the rest of the evening (or my career) correcting this guy’s work for him. I needed a way of changing his behavior. But how?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I remembered a story I’d read about Henry Kissinger. A staffer had drafted a memo and left it on Kissinger’s desk for him to read. A while later Kissinger approached him and asked if it was his best work. The staffer said no and rewrote the entire memo. The next day the staffer ran into Kissinger again and asked what he thought. Kissinger asked him again if this was the best he could do. The staffer took the memo and rewrote it yet again. The next morning the same scenario played out, only this time the poor staffer stated that yes indeed it was his best work. Kissinger replied, “Okay, now I’ll read it.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I decided to adopt Kissinger’s approach. I simply replied to the email with “Is this your best work?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The fellow responded no, asked for a few days to clarify his thinking, and came back with a version he thought was dramatically improved. Without opening the document, I shot back the same thing.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_78" role="doc-pagebreak" title="78"/>He replied, “Yes, this is the best I can do.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I read that version, and it was excellent. Now that I knew what he was capable of and he knew that I knew, I told him I expected that out of him every time. The standard was clear. I was never disappointed.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Why We Have Low Standards</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Most of the time when we accept substandard work from ourselves, it’s because we don’t really care about it. We tell ourselves it’s good enough, or the best we can manage given our time constraints. But the truth is, at least in this particular thing, we’re not committed to excellence.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When we accept substandard work from others, it’s for the same reason: we’re not all in. When you’re committed to excellence, you don’t let anyone on your team half-ass it. You set the bar, you set it high, and you expect anyone working with you to work just as hard and level up to what you expect or above. Anything less is unacceptable.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When Zhang Ruimin took over as CEO at the Qingdao Refrigerator Plant, the precursor to the appliance company Haier, the company was close to failure. To send a clear signal to his new employees, Ruimin gathered them outside to witness seventy-six substandard refrigerators smashed to pieces by a sledgehammer. Ruimin kept a sledgehammer in a glass case in the boardroom for the remainder of his tenure, as a symbol of the high standard he expected from the company.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber19" id="SuperscriptNumber19" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a></p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Excellence Demands Excellence</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Masters of their craft don’t merely want to check off a box and move on. They’re dedicated to what they do, and they keep at it. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_79" role="doc-pagebreak" title="79"/>Master-level work requires near fanatical standards, so masters show us what our standards should be. A master communicator wouldn’t accept a ponderous, rambling email. A master programmer wouldn’t accept ugly code. Neither of them would accept unclear explanations as understanding.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We’ll never be exceptional at anything unless we raise our standards, both of ourselves and of what’s possible. For most of us, that sounds like a lot of work. We gravitate toward being soft and complacent. We’d rather coast. That’s fine. Just realize this: if you do what everyone else does, you can expect the same results that everyone else gets. If you want different results, you need to raise the bar.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Working with a master firsthand is the best education; it’s the surest way of raising the bar. Their excellence demands your excellence. But most of us aren’t lucky enough to have that opportunity. Still, not all is lost. If you don’t have the chance to work with a master directly, you can still surround yourself with people who have higher standards by reading about them and their work.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>