<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2.7: Exemplars + Practice, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-19" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-34"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_80" role="doc-pagebreak" title="80"/>CHAPTER 2.7</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-35">Exemplars + Practice</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">There are two components to building strength by raising the bar:</p>
			<div role="list">
				<p class="x07-List-First" role="listitem">(a) Choose the right exemplars—ones that raise your standards. Exemplars can be people you work with, people you admire, or even people who lived long ago. It doesn’t matter. What matters is they make you better in a certain area, like a skill, trait, or value.</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Last" role="listitem">(b) Practice imitating them in certain ways. Create space in the moment to reflect on what they’d do in your position, and then act accordingly.</p>
			</div>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Let’s consider these components one at a time.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In the previous section, we discussed something most people never think about: if you don’t curate the people in your life, the people who end up surrounding you will be there by chance and not by choice. That group includes your parents, your friends, your family, your coworkers. Sure, your high school friends might be great examples of character and acumen, but odds <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_81" role="doc-pagebreak" title="81"/>are they’re average. Sure, your parents might be some of the smartest businesspeople in the world, but odds are they’re not. It’s not that you should remove these people from your life, though; controlling your environment just means intentionally adding exemplars into the mix.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Your Exemplars</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Show me your role models and I’ll show you your future.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When I first started working at a three-letter intelligence agency, I looked up to my colleague Matt. He was one of the best in the world at understanding how operating systems work and the various ways you can use them to your advantage. What struck me most about Matt was his incredibly high standards. Like Michael Jordan, Matt combined natural talent with a first-class work ethic. And he demanded perfection. (Is it any wonder that he was one of the best in the world?)</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You couldn’t say anything around Matt unless you really knew what you were talking about, or he’d correct you. He raised the bar for the entire team. Not only did he work harder than anyone else, but he consistently came up with elegant solutions to complicated problems. Matt was an exemplar: someone who modeled an exemplary way of being. He showed you what was possible.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I got lucky. Chance could’ve given me an average boss. Instead, it gave me Matt. The thing is, though, you don’t have to rely on luck. It’s possible for you to choose the people whose behavior you emulate—your exemplars—rather than merely hope you end up working with one of them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you choose the right exemplars—people with standards higher than yours—you can transcend the standards you’ve inherited from parents, friends, and acquaintances. Your <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_82" role="doc-pagebreak" title="82"/>exemplars show you what your standards should be. As Peter Kaufman once told me, “No technique has been more responsible for my success in life than studying and adopting the good models of others.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">This wisdom has been around for a long time. In his letters to Lucilius, Seneca urges him to choose a role model or exemplar to provide a standard to live by:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x06-Extract-1P">The mind should have someone whom it can respect—someone whose authority might make even its inner shrine more hallowed. . . . Happy is he who can so respect a man that the very memory of that man can calm and direct him! He who can thus respect another will quickly be respected himself. Therefore, choose a Cato, or if this seems too strict for you, choose a gentler spirit—a man like Laelius. Choose someone whose life and speech pleases you, and who displays outwardly the same character he has. Present him to yourself always as your guardian or exemplar. There is need, I insist, for someone against whom to measure our way of life; unless you have a ruler, you can’t straighten what is crooked.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber20" id="SuperscriptNumber20" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The people we choose as our exemplars exhibit the principles, the resolve, and the overall patterns of thinking, feeling, and acting that we want to make our own. Their example helps us navigate the world. It becomes our North Star.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Most people didn’t want to adopt Matt’s standards because those standards were so exacting. Yet if you were willing to put in the work, Matt was a shortcut to excellence hiding in plain sight. People at the far right of the bell curve (the positive outliers) can teach you tips, tricks, and insights that might otherwise <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_83" role="doc-pagebreak" title="83"/>take a lifetime to learn. They’ve done the heavy lifting. They’ve already paid for the lessons, so you don’t have to. Learning from and attempting to live up to Matt’s standards helped me become proficient much faster than I would have become otherwise.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Look around, find the best examples you can of people with the attributes you want to cultivate—the people whose default behavior is your desired behavior, those who inspire you to raise the bar and make you want to be a better version of yourself.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Your exemplars needn’t be alive. They can be either dead or fictional, as well. We can learn from both Atticus Finch and Warren Buffett, along with Genghis Khan and Batman. It’s up to you.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Your Personal Board of Directors</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Put all of your exemplars on your “personal board of directors,” a concept that originates with author Jim Collins:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x06-Extract-1P">Back in the early ’80s, I made Bill [Lazier] the honorary chairman of my personal board of directors. And when I chose members . . . they were not chosen for their success. They were chosen for their values and their character. . . . They’re the sorts of people I wouldn’t want to let down.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber21" id="SuperscriptNumber21" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The exemplars on your personal board can be a mix of high accomplishment and high character. The only requirement is that they have a skill, attitude, or disposition you want to cultivate in yourself. They don’t have to be perfect. All people have flaws, and your personal board will be no different. But <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_84" role="doc-pagebreak" title="84"/>everyone is better than us at something. Our job is to figure out what that something is and learn from it while ignoring the rest.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One of the biggest mistakes that I see people make is they don’t want to learn from someone who has a character blemish or a worldview that doesn’t align with theirs. Seneca captured the right approach when he said in <i>On the Tranquility of the Mind</i>, “I shall never be ashamed of citing a bad author if the line is good.” Or, as Cato the Elder put it, “Be careful not to rashly refuse to learn from others.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber22" id="SuperscriptNumber22" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[3]</a> Don’t throw away the apple because of a bruise on the skin.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Your personal board of directors isn’t static. People come and go. You’re always curating the list. To take it back to <i>The Godfather</i>, sometimes you want the peacetime consigliere and sometimes you want the wartime consigliere. Sometimes you’ve learned what you can from someone, and you want to replace them with someone else. Each person tends to lead you to the next.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Masters have a different standard—often one of elegance and beauty. And when you put masters on your board, you raise the bar for yourself. What seemed good enough before doesn’t seem good enough anymore.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One of my exemplars is Charlie Munger, the billionaire business partner of Warren Buffett. He raised my standard for holding an opinion. One night at dinner, he commented, “I never allow myself to have an opinion on anything unless I know the other side’s argument better than they do.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Talk about raising the bar! Many people have opinions, but very few have done the work required to hold them. Doing that work means you can argue against yourself better than your real opponents can. It forces you to challenge your beliefs because you have to argue from both sides. It’s only when you <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_85" role="doc-pagebreak" title="85"/>put in the work that you come to really understand an argument. You understand the reasons for and against it. Through that work you earn the confidence to endorse it.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber23" id="SuperscriptNumber23" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[4]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There is no better way to learn than working directly with your heroes. The benefit of working with someone in person is that it allows for a natural back-and-forth—more a coaching relationship than a mere model. A personal relationship also allows you to ask for help—to reach out when you need it. But working in person with someone you admire isn’t always possible. Still, that doesn’t mean you have to accept the lot of people around you.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The phone in your pocket literally gives you access to the smartest people who’ve ever existed, alive or dead. Even if you don’t have direct contact with them, you can often listen to them talk in their own words—unfiltered! Think about that for a second. For the first time in history, you have the opportunity to listen to your exemplars explain things in their own way, without someone getting in the middle.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="68_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-026-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If your hero is Tobi Lütke, who started Shopify, one of the most successful companies in the history of the world, you can find countless interviews with him on the internet. You can sit at the feet of the master and learn as he shares how he thinks, how he makes decisions, how he runs his company. The same goes for Peter D. Kaufman, Warren Buffett, Jeff Bezos, Tom Brady, Simone Biles, Serena Williams, or Katie Ledecky.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can choose among the greats of history: Richard Feynman, George Washington, Charles de Gaulle, Winston Churchill, Coco Chanel, Charlie Munger, Marie Curie, Marcus Aurelius. All of them are ready to accept your invitation to be <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_86" role="doc-pagebreak" title="86"/>on your personal board. All you need to do is collect the best of them together and unite them in your mind. As Montaigne put it, “I have gathered a garland of other men’s flowers, and nothing is mine but the cord that binds them.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber24" id="SuperscriptNumber24" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[5]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You’re never alone if you have a personal board of directors. They’re always there. You can imagine them watching you make decisions and power moves. And once you imagine them watching, your behavior is bound to reflect this new audience. They will help set the standards that you strive to live up to, and give you a ruler against which to measure yourself. You’re not a failure if you come up short—if you don’t write a bestselling book, or become a billionaire, or work out every day. You’re not in competition with your exemplars. The only person you’re competing with is the person you were yesterday. Victory is being a little better today.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Your Repository of Good Behavior</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Choosing the right exemplars helps create a repository of “good behavior.” As you read what people have written, as you talk to them, as you learn from their experiences, as you learn from your own experiences, you begin to build a database of situations and responses. Building this database is one of the most important things you’ll ever do because it helps create space for reason in your life. Instead of reacting, and simply copying those around you, you think, “Here’s what the outliers do.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you face a new situation, you have a catalog of the responses that people on the far right of the bell curve have had in similar situations. Your baseline response moves from good to great—from reaction to reason.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Your board can pull you in the right direction despite your instincts.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_87" role="doc-pagebreak" title="87"/>If we have our board stacked with high-character people, we’ll end up wanting to be the highest-character version of ourselves. We’ll have the confidence to take a moral stand, and to act alone when the social tide goes the wrong way. We needn’t passively follow its ebbs and flows. Our personal board gives us the courage and insight to swim in the direction that’s best.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A final note on exemplars: just as other people serve on your personal board of directors, you serve on other people’s boards. Denzel Washington reminds us of this point: “You never know who you touch. You never know how or when you’ll have an impact, or how important your example can be to someone else.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber25" id="SuperscriptNumber25" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[6]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Maybe it’s the new employee down the hall. Maybe it’s your kids. Maybe it’s your cousin. It doesn’t matter. What matters is there’s someone out there looking up at you and using your behavior as their North Star. Everything you do has the power to change someone else’s life for the better. As Seneca said, “Happy is he who can improve others not just when he is in their presence, but even when he is in their thoughts!”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber26" id="SuperscriptNumber26" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[7]</a></p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Practice, Practice, Practice</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-FL">Strengths of character result from habit. . . . We acquire them just as we acquire skills . . . we become builders, for instance, by building, and we become harpists by playing the harp. So too we become just by doing just actions, temperate by doing temperate actions, brave by doing brave actions.</p>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-Source">—ARISTOTLE, <i class="_3-Ch-Epi-ITAL">Nicomachean Ethics,</i> <span class="_3-Ch-Epi-REG">Book 2, Chapter 1</span></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">It’s not enough just to pick exemplars and assemble a personal board of directors. You also have to follow their example—not <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_88" role="doc-pagebreak" title="88"/>just once or twice, but again and again. Only then will you internalize the standards they embody, and become the kind of person you want to be.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Imitating your exemplars involves creating space in the moment to exercise reason and evaluate your thoughts, feelings, and possible courses of action. Doing this retrains past patterns of behavior so they align more closely with the patterns of your exemplars.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One way of creating space for reason in your thinking is to ask yourself what your exemplars would do if they were in your position. It’s the natural next step. Once you imagine them watching, you make decisions and put them into action. If, for instance, you’re making an investment decision, ask yourself, “What would Warren Buffett do?” Likewise, ask yourself, “How would I pitch this idea to my personal board of directors? What kinds of factors would they care about? What kinds of factors would they dismiss as irrelevant?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you imagine your exemplars watching you, you’d tend to do all the things you know they’d want you to do and avoid the things you know would get in the way.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s important to engage in this thoughtful exercise often. You have to keep doing it until you acquire a new pattern of thinking, feeling, and acting. Keep practicing until the pattern becomes second nature: an element of who you are, rather than just who you want to be.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One strategy for building strength is to practice in a sandbox. As you may have guessed, the sandbox is metaphorical—a situation in which any mistakes you make are relatively inconsequential and easily reversed. A sandbox allows you to make and learn from mistakes while containing their cost. Practicing in a sandbox increases the likelihood that you’ll be <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_89" role="doc-pagebreak" title="89"/>successful when the stakes are higher and the outcomes more consequential and less reversible.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One reason why you usually start out managing just one other person or a small team, rather than an entire organization, is that your failures are contained. Starting with a small-scale management role is one example of a sandbox. When you’re running a whole organization, mistakes are costlier and harder to contain than when you’re managing a team.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There’s no substitute for practicing with the real thing, yet sandboxes can remove the downside of the mistakes you inevitably make when practicing. At the intelligence agency, we’d always practice and rehearse before an operation in an environment in which it was safe to fail. We treated the practice as if it were the operation itself; we’d do all the things we planned on doing during the operation, and tried to predict and respond to all the things that could conceivably happen. If something didn’t go as planned, we would adapt. And sometimes we’d fail. Failing in that sandbox, though, provided a learning opportunity with few real-world consequences, whereas failing in a real operation could cost people their <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_90" role="doc-pagebreak" title="90"/>lives.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>