<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3.1: Knowing Your Weaknesses, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-21" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-38"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_93" role="doc-pagebreak" title="93"/>CHAPTER 3.1</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-39">Knowing Your Weaknesses</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">We all have weaknesses, many of which are built into our biology. We are, for instance, vulnerable to being hungry, thirsty, fatigued, sleep deprived, emotional, distracted, or stressed. All of these conditions can push us toward reacting instead of thinking clearly, and blind us to the deciding moments of our lives.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Each of us also has a limited perspective on things: we can see and know only so much. In addition, we have inbuilt tendencies to form judgments and opinions even in the absence of knowledge. We’ve seen that our instincts for self-preservation, group membership, hierarchy, and territoriality can all trigger bad judgments that harm us and the people around us.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Some of our weaknesses aren’t built into our biology; instead they are acquired through habit, and stay with us by force of inertia.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Bad habits are easy to acquire when there is a delay between action and consequence. If you eat a chocolate bar or skip a workout today, you’re not going to suddenly go from healthy to unhealthy. Work late and miss dinner with your <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_94" role="doc-pagebreak" title="94"/>family a couple nights, and it won’t damage your relationship. If you spend today on social media instead of doing work, you’re not going to get fired. However, these choices can end up becoming habits through repetition and accumulate into disaster.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The formula for failure is a few small errors consistently repeated. Just because the results aren’t immediately felt doesn’t mean consequences aren’t coming. You are smart enough to know the potential results; you just don’t necessarily realize when they’re coming. While good choices repeated make time your friend, bad ones make it your enemy.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="69_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-027-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">Examples of Inbuilt Weaknesses</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Hunger</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Thirst</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Fatigue</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Sleep deprivation</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Emotion</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Distraction</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Stress</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Limitations in perspective</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Cognitive biases</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">Examples of Acquired Weaknesses</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Acting on emotional impulse</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Doing less than you’re capable of</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Refusing to start something because of fear</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Seeing only your own point of view</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body1">Coasting on your talent without hard work</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Whatever our weaknesses and whatever their origins, the defaults will handily take command of our lives if we don’t manage them. Moreover, we’re often unaware when they do.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_95" role="doc-pagebreak" title="95"/>The Two Ways of Managing Weakness</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">There are two ways to manage your weaknesses. The first is to build your strengths, which will help you overcome the weaknesses you’ve acquired. The second is to implement safeguards, which will help you manage any weaknesses you’re having trouble overcoming with strength alone. In addition, safeguards help us manage weaknesses that are impossible to overcome—for example, the ones we owe to our biological limitations.</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">How to Manage Inbuilt Weaknesses</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Safeguards</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">How to Manage Acquired Weaknesses</p>
			<p class="x08-Table-Body">Strength + safeguards</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We saw in Part 2 how strength can overcome weaknesses that we’ve acquired. For example, developing self-control empowers you to overcome emotion-driven behavior and avoid the regrets it produces. Developing self-confidence empowers you to overcome inertia and execute difficult decisions. It empowers you to overcome social pressure so that you have the strength to go against the crowd. It also empowers you to overcome your ego, acknowledge your deficiencies, and start on the path to doing and being better.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Blind Spots</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Some of our weaknesses are the limitations on what we can know, our <i>blind spots</i>. We’re all familiar with perceptual blind spots—our inability to see accurately beyond a certain distance, and in environments without enough light. We have deaf spots, too; we can’t hear sounds below a certain volume or above a certain pitch.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_96" role="doc-pagebreak" title="96"/>What’s true of perception is also true of cognition—our ability to think and judge. The cognitive capacities we’ve inherited from natural selection weren’t designed to achieve maximum accuracy, but only enough to increase our chances of survival and reproduction. In fact, some of these capacities weren’t designed for accuracy at all. They exist to prompt us to avoid serious threats to our survival and reproductive potential.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Think of how a rabbit bolts even if you don’t pose a real threat to it. Rabbits have this behavioral tendency because, from an evolutionary perspective, they know it’s better to be safe than sorry. The survival cost of a false negative is much higher than the cost of a false positive. Many of our cognitive biases work the same way. They were originally designed to bias us toward behaviors that promoted survival and reproduction, and away from behaviors that might compromise them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">For example, both falling in with a group and acting swiftly on the basis of limited information had survival value for our prehistoric ancestors. But both tendencies can trigger errors in judgment, and provide us with additional blind spots.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Knowing about Your Blind Spots Isn’t Enough</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">It’s not enough to know about your biases and other blind spots. You have to take steps to manage them. If you don’t, the defaults will take control.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Some blind spots are due to our perspective. None of us can know everything about a situation from every angle. Think of poker players. If a player had complete information about who had which cards, they wouldn’t make any mistakes. As it is, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_97" role="doc-pagebreak" title="97"/>players can see only their own cards and just the ones dealt faceup. Because they are blind to the other hands, they make mistakes.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">While we can only guess why other people do what they do in poker or any other situation, our biggest blind spot tends to be knowing our own weaknesses. There’s a famous quote from Richard Feynman: “The first principle is that you must not fool yourself—and you are the easiest person to fool.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber27" id="SuperscriptNumber27" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We fail to see our own weaknesses for three main reasons.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">First, those flaws can be hard for us to detect because they’re part of the way we’re accustomed to thinking, feeling, and acting. Flawed behavior has become ingrained through a long process of habit formation. Those flaws are part of who we are, even if it’s not in line with who we want to be.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Second, seeing our flaws bruises our egos—especially when those flaws are behaviors that are deeply ingrained. They’re different from shortcomings like, say, lacking a technical skill, because they feel like a referendum on the kind of person we think we are. We are territorial about how we see ourselves and tend to dismiss information that challenges our self-image.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Third, we have a limited perspective. It is very hard to understand a system that we are a part of. Just as you look back on your sixteen-year-old self and wonder what you were thinking, your future self will look back on your current self and think the same thing. Your present self is blind to the perspective of your future self.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Perspective and human nature make it hard to see our own flaws, and yet it’s easy to see the flaws in others. We are practically experts about where our colleagues and friends are weak and where they are strong. It’s hard to accept, however, that others might see us just as clearly in kind. When we get <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_98" role="doc-pagebreak" title="98"/>feedback about our own weaknesses from the world, it’s a rare opportunity for getting better and getting closer to the kind of people we really want to be. Use these opportunities wisely!</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Blind Spots on the USS <i class="_5-Head-A-ITAL">Benfold</i></h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The story of the USS<i> Benfold</i> provides an important example of how to recognize and overcome blind spots.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber28" id="SuperscriptNumber28" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The <i>Benfold</i> was one of the worst-performing warships in the entire US Navy. Commissioned in 1996 for duty in the Pacific Fleet, it housed one of the Navy’s most advanced arsenals of missiles and technology at the time. Its radar system was so advanced that it could track a bird from fifty miles. Its mission was to be prepared for war at all times. But it was falling short.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Despite otherwise brilliant military careers, previous commanders had been unable to turn its performance around. So much of a ship’s performance comes down to people, not technology.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There’s nothing more important for a leader than getting the most out of your crew. Often that comes down to removing obstacles that limit potential. All the technology in the world isn’t going to make you better if the people using it are checked out.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The destiny of the USS<i> Benfold</i> changed the day Michael Abrashoff was named commander. He was in his mid-thirties when the Navy offered him the <i>Benfold</i>, his first sea command. At the time, he said, the “dysfunctional ship had a sullen crew that resented being there and could not wait to get out of the Navy.” And yet, in under twenty months, Abrashoff turned the <i>Benfold</i> into one of the highest-performing ships in the Navy. And he did it within a stifling hierarchy.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_99" role="doc-pagebreak" title="99"/>But how?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">What’s incredible is how he <i>didn’t</i> do it. He didn’t fire or demote anyone. He didn’t change the hierarchy. He didn’t change any technology. The only real change was within himself. He started to identify his potential blind spots, and to look at the world from the crew’s perspective.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Abrashoff observed one of the ship’s usual Sunday afternoon cookouts shortly after assuming command, and noticed a long line of sailors waiting to get their lunch while officers cut to the head of the line to get their food. Not only that, but after getting their food, the officers went to a private deck to eat apart from the sailors. Imagine you’re a sailor on the ship and your boss comes and hops the line in front of you. What message does this send? Does it make you want to go all in on your job? Does it make you want to come up with new ideas to help the ship?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“The officers weren’t bad people,” Abrashoff recalls, “they just didn’t know any different. It’s always been that way.” Rather than approaching the officers and telling them what to do (a typical command-and-control approach that rarely works in the long term), Abrashoff simply went to the end of the line.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A supply officer approached him and said, “You don’t understand. You go to the head of the line.” Abrashoff shrugged this off, saying it didn’t seem right to him. He waited in line, got his food, and then sat down with the sailors. The next weekend everyone waited in line and ate together. No command was ever issued.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">From the start, Abrashoff knew you can’t simply order people to be better. Even if that appears to work, the results are short term and the consequences enormous. It doesn’t matter if you’re on a ship or running a manufacturing company. You don’t tap into people’s resourcefulness, intelligence, and skills by command-and-control.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_100" role="doc-pagebreak" title="100"/>“Show me an organization in which employees take ownership, and I will show you one that beats its competitors,” says Abrashoff. “Captains need to see the ship from the crew’s perspective. They need to make it easy and rewarding for crew members to express themselves and their ideas.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber29" id="SuperscriptNumber29" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[3]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There is a gap in our thinking that comes from believing that the way we see the world is the way the world really works. It’s only when we change our perspective—when we look at the situation through the eyes of other people—that we realize what we’re missing. We begin to appreciate our own blind spots and see what we’ve been missing.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>