<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3.2: Protecting Yourself with Safeguards, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-22" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-40"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_101" role="doc-pagebreak" title="101"/>CHAPTER 3.2</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-41">Protecting Yourself with Safeguards</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">There are many inbuilt biological vulnerabilities that can impede good judgment: sleep deprivation, hunger, fatigue, emotion, distraction, stress from feeling rushed, and being in an unfamiliar environment are just some examples. We can’t avoid finding ourselves in these conditions from time to time. But we can implement safeguards to protect us from our defaults when we are.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Safeguards are tools for protecting ourselves from ourselves—from weaknesses that we don’t have the strength to overcome.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Here’s a simple example. Suppose you want to start eating a healthier diet. You make this task exponentially harder on yourself if you inhabit an unhealthy environment—if, say, your pantry and fridge are full of junk food. Purging your home of all junk food is a safeguard. It protects you against impulsively ripping open a bag of potato chips when you’re feeling hungry or bored. Of course, you can still go to the store and buy chips, but that’s a lot of work. You have to think, plan, and act. In the time it takes you to do all that, you might <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_102" role="doc-pagebreak" title="102"/>think better of your options, and choose to eat something more in line with your health goals.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Purging your home of all junk food is an example of one safeguarding strategy: increasing the amount of “friction” required to do something that’s contrary to your long-term goals. There are lots of safeguard strategies, though. My favorites include prevention, creating rules for yourself, making checklists, shifting your frame of reference, and making the invisible visible. Let’s talk about each strategy.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Safeguard Strategy 1: Prevention</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The first kind of safeguard aims at preventing problems before they happen. One way to do this is to avoid decision-making in unfavorable conditions. Stress, for instance, is a big contributor to bad decisions. Some studies have shown that stress short-circuits the deliberation process—it undermines the systematic evaluation of alternatives that’s needed for effective decision-making.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber30" id="SuperscriptNumber30" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Alcoholics Anonymous has a helpful safeguard for its members. They call it HALT—an acronym that stands for Hungry, Angry, Lonely, and Tired. When you feel like having a drink, they say, ask yourself whether any of these conditions apply. If so, deal with the real problem—hunger, anger, loneliness, or fatigue—instead of reaching for a drink.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can use the principles behind HALT as a safeguard for decision-making in general. If you have an important decision to make, ask yourself: “Am I hungry? Am I angry or otherwise emotional? Am I lonely or otherwise stressed by my circumstances, such as being in an unfamiliar environment or pressed for time? Am I tired, sleep-deprived, or physically fatigued?” If <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_103" role="doc-pagebreak" title="103"/>the answer is yes to any of these questions, avoid making the decision if you can. Wait for a more opportune time. Otherwise, your defaults will take over.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Safeguard Strategy 2: Automatic Rules for Success</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Reactive choices are automatic responses to a stimulus. Most of these responses are below the level of consciousness: We’re not even aware of them. Sometimes we’re able to slow down enough to override our ingrained responses, but this requires a lot of conscious effort on our part. Fortunately, there’s an easier way: creating new behaviors that help you get what you want. Think of them as automatic rules for success.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Nothing forces you to accept the ingrained behaviors and rules from your upbringing and life circumstances. You can decide to eliminate them at any time, and replace them with better ones.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In my conversation with Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman, the godfather of cognitive biases and thinking errors, he revealed an unexpected way we can improve our judgment: replacing decisions with rules.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber31" id="SuperscriptNumber31" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a> It turns out that rules can help us automate our behavior to put us in a position to achieve success and accomplish our goals.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When we make decisions, we often think of the goals we want to achieve and work backward to identify the means of achieving them. If you want to get in shape, you start going to the gym and eating healthier. If you want to save more money, you might hide part of your paycheck from yourself every week. We use our willpower to accomplish these goals. Once they’re accomplished, we often go back to the default behavior we had <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_104" role="doc-pagebreak" title="104"/>before. Eventually we realize we’re back where we don’t want to be, so we begin the entire process again.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">This approach is flawed. It involves constant decision-making and effort. Choosing goals is necessary but not sufficient for accomplishing them. You also need to pursue those goals consistently. That means continuing every day to make choices in pursuit of your goals. Every day, you have to choose to work out or to skip dessert. As these choices add up, it becomes harder, not easier, to consistently make choices that move you toward your goals and not away from them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Making all these choices requires a lot of sustained effort. When we cave into something we didn’t want to do, we offer ourselves convenient excuses: “I had a long day,” or “I forgot my gym clothes,” or “I have a lot of prep for tomorrow’s meeting.” Eventually it becomes easier to make those excuses than to make the choices that lead us to our goals.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When it comes to your health, just like many other elements of your life, environment determines behavior. Your environment makes one path easier than another.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="70_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-033-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> It’s easier to make healthy food choices if the only foods available to you are good for you. It’s also easier to stick to a consistent pattern of choices if you’re in your familiar operating environment. When you’re in an unfamiliar environment, it’s harder to maintain your familiar patterns of behavior, which is why a lot of people stop exercising or eating healthy when they travel.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Your environment isn’t just your physical surroundings. It also includes people. Sometimes it’s hard saying no to someone. We’re wired in a way that makes us want to be liked by others, and we’re afraid that saying no to someone will make <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_105" role="doc-pagebreak" title="105"/>them like us less. Saying no to someone repeatedly can be even more difficult. We might say no when our friend offers us a sugary beverage after a workout one day, but if he does it three days in a row, we cave. That’s only human.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We’re also wired to want to fit in with other people. Think of how often you have ended up having a social drink when you really just wanted water. Your friends or colleagues ordered first—a glass of wine, say—and you somehow felt guilty about not ordering a drink yourself. So, you order wine too and compromise on what you really want.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Why not bypass individual choices altogether and create an automatic behavior—a rule—that requires no decision-making in the moment and that gets no pushback from others? Why not set a rule that you order a social drink only when you actually feel like one, and never just to fit in with what the group is doing?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Similarly, suppose your goal is to drink less soda.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="71_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-032-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> Rather than deciding on a case-by-case basis whether you’re going to drink soda—something that requires a lot of effort and that is prone to error—make a rule instead. For example, “I only drink soda at dinner on Friday,” or maybe, “I don’t drink soda at all.” Having a rule means not having to decide at every meal. The execution path is short, and less error prone.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In a quirk of psychology, people typically don’t argue with your personal rules. They just accept them as features of who you are. People question decisions, but they respect rules.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Kahneman told me his favorite rule was never to say yes to a request on the phone. He knows that he wants people to like him, so he wants to say yes in the moment, but after filling up his schedule with things that didn’t make him happy, he <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_106" role="doc-pagebreak" title="106"/>decided to be more vigilant about what he agrees to do and why. When people ask him for things over the phone now, he says something along the lines of, “I’ll have to get back to you after I think about it.” Not only does this give him time to think without the immediate social pressure, but it also allows a lot of these requests to just drop away because people choose not to follow up. He rarely gets back to any of these people and says yes.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="72_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_3" id="footnote-031-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">After speaking with Kahneman, I spent some time thinking about what automatic rules I could create for myself so that my desire in the moment didn’t overpower my ultimate desire.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The way I did this was to imagine a film crew following me around documenting how successful I was.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="73_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_4" id="footnote-030-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> Regardless of whether I was a success or not, how would I act to show someone I deserved my success? What would I want them to see? What am I doing that I would want them not to see because I’m embarrassed or ashamed?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When I run this experiment by people, I am constantly surprised. We all know something we could do to improve our odds of success. And we all know something we can stop doing that would also improve our odds of success.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Just because I can’t control all the things I need to do doesn’t mean I can’t control when I do them. The version of me that I’d want the film crew to see focused on what mattered.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Using this prompt, I decided to create space every day to work on the biggest opportunities. I imagined the film crew <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_107" role="doc-pagebreak" title="107"/>watching me make breakfast for the kids and then going to work. While the crew would be expecting to see meetings and people asking me for things, what they’d see is no calls or meetings until lunch so I could spend time working on the most important opportunity. This is where my no-meetings-before-lunch rule came from.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="74_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_5" id="footnote-029-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We’re taught our whole lives to follow rules, and yet no one ever told us about how we can create powerful rules that help us get what we want. I find it hard to go to the gym three days a week, so my rule is I go every day. I do not feel like going to the gym every day. In fact, some days I hate it. I also know it’s easier to follow my rule than to break it. When it comes to the gym, going every day is easier than going some days.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Creating personal rules is a powerful technique for protecting yourself from your own weaknesses and limitations. Sometimes those rules have surprising benefits.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Safeguard Strategy 3: Creating Friction</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Another safeguarding strategy is to increase the amount of effort it takes to do things that are contrary to your goals. I used to find myself checking my email whenever I have a second. I’d check it before I got out of bed, on the walk home from work, in line at the grocery store.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s easy to tell myself that I’m not the only one, that everyone does this too. The dopamine hit of something new prevents many of us from working on our priorities. It isn’t just that I was spending too much time on email, though, it’s that <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_108" role="doc-pagebreak" title="108"/>email could hijack my time from what’s important. The scary thing is, I often <i>wanted</i> it to take me away from what I was supposed to be doing.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Consider a major report I needed to complete early in my career. I would get to work and rather than write the report, which was clearly the most important thing for me to do, I’d check my email. If there was anything in my inbox that required even a modicum of attention, I’d tell myself I needed to do that before starting on the report. And, of course, by the time I was done with that first email, more had come in that needed attention. It didn’t take much to convince myself I needed to do that before I started. Only near the end of the workday would I finally sit down to write the report, mentally exhausted.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you step back and think about it for a second, I was giving one of the most important things I wanted to do the worst of myself. Email, which I dread on the best of days, was getting my most energetic and creative self. Many of us do this with our partners too. By the time everything we need to do over the course of a long day is finished, we’re exhausted. And this is the time we give to our spouse, the most important person in our lives!</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If there were a recipe for accumulated disaster, it would be giving the best of ourselves to the least important things and the worst of ourselves to the most important things.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The path to breaking bad habits is making your desired behavior the default behavior. To get on track with the report, I told my colleagues that until the report was submitted, I’d buy them all lunch if they caught me with my email open before 11:00 a.m. My being competitive and not wanting to buy them lunch created enough friction to keep me from checking it first thing in the morning.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_109" role="doc-pagebreak" title="109"/>I’d work free from distraction all morning. In the afternoon, I’d do email, take calls, and attend or conduct meetings. It’s incredible how much I got done.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s easy to underestimate the role ease plays in decision-making. Since behavior follows the path of least resistance, a surprisingly successful approach is to add friction where you find yourself doing things you don’t want to do.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Safeguard Strategy 4: Putting in Guardrails</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Another safeguarding strategy is to formulate operating procedures for yourself because you know from hard experience when your defaults tend to override your decision-making. The defaults prevent us from seeing what’s actually happening and from responding in ways aligned with our best self-image.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We’ve already discussed setting automatic rules such as Kahneman’s resolution to not say yes to things on the phone, and avoiding making important decisions under unfavorable conditions. There are other effective safeguarding procedures, though, that also force you to slow down in the moment, creating a pocket of time in which to think more clearly about any situation. These procedures make us take a step back and ask, “What am I trying to achieve?” and “Is this moving me closer to that or further away?” These seem like basic questions, but they’re often forgotten in the heat of the moment.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Checklists, for instance, offer a simple way to override your defaults. Pilots go through a preflight checklist every time they fly. Surgeons go through preoperative checklists every time they operate. You might have a packing checklist every time you travel. In each of these cases, the checklist acts as a safeguard, forcing us to slow down whatever we’re doing and go back to basics: “What am I trying to accomplish? And what are <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_110" role="doc-pagebreak" title="110"/>the things I need to accomplish it?” Questions like these are the guardrails that will keep you on the road to success.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="75_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_6" id="footnote-028-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Safeguard Strategy 5: Shifting Your Perspective</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Each of us sees things only from a particular point of view. Nobody can possibly see everything. That doesn’t mean, however, that we can’t shift the way we see things in any given situation.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In physics, a frame of reference is a set of coordinates for observing events. Different observers occupy different frames of reference, and what’s visible from one isn’t necessarily visible from another. For example, you occupy one frame of reference if you’re seated in a traveling train car, while I occupy a different one if I’m standing at the station, watching your train pass by. Within your frame of reference, you and the bench on which you’re sitting are stationary. From mine, though, you and the bench are both moving fast.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Imagine now that it were possible for you to shift your frame of reference. What if, for instance, I were live streaming the approach of your train to you? You would then be able to see yourself and your position from my perspective, giving you more information about your situation that wasn’t visible from your frame of reference. Suppose your train were on a collision course with an obstacle on the tracks ahead that was only visible from my frame of reference. Within your view, everything would seem fine. You wouldn’t know you were headed toward disaster. Shifting your frame of reference and seeing things from <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_111" role="doc-pagebreak" title="111"/>my perspective would give you crucial information and enable you to take steps to avoid a catastrophe.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">What applies in the train example applies to many other cases. While you might be seated on your couch reading this book and not moving at all, from the sun’s point of view, you’re moving at sixty-seven thousand miles per hour around it. Having an outside perspective on your situation allows you to see more of what’s actually happening. Changing your perspective changes what you see.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Shifting your frame of reference is a powerful safeguard against blind spots. Earlier, we saw that Michael Abrashoff was able to turn around the performance of the USS<i> Benfold</i> by shifting his frame of reference. Rather than continuing to see things from the <i>Benfold</i>’s established frame of reference—a frame in which it was normal for officers to treat sailors as second-class citizens—Abrashoff shifted his frame of reference and looked at things instead from the perspective of ordinary sailors and ordinary fairness.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I once had a coworker who was also a friend. One day he walked into my office with some news. “I figured out what I’m doing wrong,” he said. “I’m so busy trying to prove to everyone I’m right that I can’t see the world from their point of view.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The problem wasn’t that he wasn’t smart. He was. It wasn’t that he didn’t work hard. He did. The problem was that he couldn’t relate to other people because he hadn’t even made any effort to see things through their eyes. Now he’d come to realize it himself and started to change his behavior.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">From that point on, whenever he discussed something with anyone at work, he would start by offering his impressions of how the other person saw things. Then he would ask, “What did I miss?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_112" role="doc-pagebreak" title="112"/>Asking this question is a clever move. It implies that he’s open to correction and gives the other person a chance to correct him. One of the deepest-rooted human instincts is to correct other people, so by asking this question, he makes it easy for the other person to engage with him. Then, if the other person does in fact correct him, it reveals to him which factors are most important to that person.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When the other person is done answering that first question, my friend still doesn’t offer his own thoughts right away. He first asks a follow-up: “What else did I miss?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">This approach to interpersonal communication is an example of a reference-shifting safeguard. Asking the two questions, and listening to the answers people give him, forces him to see things through other people’s eyes. Taking the time to do that protects him against a tendency that he identified as a weakness.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A few months after making the change, he became a conduit between his team and the rest of the organization. As time went on, people started asking that he accompany his boss to meetings. When his boss eventually moved to a new role, everyone wanted him to fill the vacancy. He never even had to ask.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>