<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3.3: How to Handle Mistakes, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-23" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-42"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_113" role="doc-pagebreak" title="113"/>CHAPTER 3.3</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-43">How to Handle Mistakes</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Mistakes are an unavoidable part of life. Even the most skilled people make mistakes, because there are so many factors beyond our knowledge and control that impact our success. This is true especially when we’re pushing the boundaries of knowledge or potential. On the frontier of what we can know or do, there are no wagon tracks to follow, no familiar landmarks, no mile markers, no road maps to guide us. We’re moving forward without the benefit of anyone else’s hindsight. Missteps will happen. Part of taking command of our lives is managing those missteps when they do happen.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When things don’t work out the way we’d like, most of us default to blaming the world rather than ourselves. This is a form of what psychologists call <i>self-serving bias</i>: a tendency to evaluate things in ways that protect or enhance our self-image, which I mentioned earlier when discussing self-accountability. When people succeed at something, they tend to attribute their success to their own ability or effort: “I’m really smart”; “I worked really hard”; “I knew all the angles.” By contrast, when people fail at something, they tend to attribute their <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_114" role="doc-pagebreak" title="114"/>failure to external factors: “My boss doesn’t like me,” “The test was unfair,” etc.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In other words, “Heads, I’m right. Tails, I’m not wrong.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you got some results you didn’t want, the world is telling you at least one of two things:</p>
			<div role="list">
				<p class="x07-List-First" role="listitem">(a) you were unlucky;</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Last" role="listitem">(b) your ideas about how things work were wrong.</p>
			</div>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">If you were unlucky, trying again with the same approach should lead to a different outcome. When you repeatedly don’t get the outcomes you want, though, the world is telling you to update your understanding.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Many people don’t want to hear that their ideas are wrong. They don’t want to be conscious of the flaws in their thinking and would prefer instead to sleepwalk through life. They do this in part because recognizing that their ideas are wrong is a blow to their self-image: it’s proof that they’re not as smart or knowledgeable as they’ve believed themselves to be. That’s the ego default at work.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you want to see whether your thinking is wrong, you need to make it visible. Making what was previously invisible visible gives us the best chance of seeing what we knew and what we thought at the time we made a decision. Relying on memory won’t work because the ego distorts information to make us look better than we actually were.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Once you realize that it’s time to update your ideas, though, changing what you believe about the world requires a lot of work. So people tend to ignore what the world is trying to tell them. They keep doing what they’ve always done and keep getting the same results. That’s the inertia default at work.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_115" role="doc-pagebreak" title="115"/>Mistakes Present Us with a Choice</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">As with anything else, there are better and worse ways of handling mistakes. The world doesn’t stop just because you made a mistake. Life goes on, and you need to go on too. You can’t simply throw your hands up and walk away. There are other decisions to make, other things to accomplish, and hopefully you won’t repeat that kind of mistake in the future.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Everyone makes mistakes because everyone has limitations. Even you. Trying to avoid responsibility for your decisions, your actions, or their outcomes, though, is tantamount to pretending you don’t have limitations. One thing that sets exceptional people apart from the crowd is how they handle mistakes and whether they learn from them and do better as a result.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Mistakes present a choice: whether to update your ideas, or ignore the failures they’ve produced and keep believing what you’ve always believed. More than a few of us choose the latter.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The biggest mistake people make typically isn’t their initial mistake. It’s the mistake of trying to cover up and avoid responsibility for it. The first mistake is expensive; the second one costs a fortune.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">My kids learned this the hard way. One day, I came home to find a weird piece of broken glass on the floor. I held it up and asked what had happened, and they pleaded ignorance. When I opened the garbage, though, and moved a sheet of paper that seemed to have been carefully placed on top, I found the remains of a shattered vase. I gave my kids one final opportunity to change their story. With all the confidence preteens could muster, they stuck to it. When the consequences came, it wasn’t for breaking the vase, it was for lying.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There are three problems with covering up mistakes. The <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_116" role="doc-pagebreak" title="116"/>first is that you can’t learn if you ignore your mistakes. The second is that hiding them becomes a habit. The third is that the cover-up makes a bad situation worse.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Admitting error and correcting course is a time-saver that empowers you to avoid making more mistakes in the future. However, mistakes also provide rare opportunities for getting closer to the kind of person you want to be, should you choose to heed their lessons. Use those opportunities wisely! Don’t squander them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The four steps to handling mistakes more effectively are as follows: (1) accept responsibility, (2) learn from the mistake, (3) commit to doing better, and (4) repair the damage as best you can.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Step 1: Accept Responsibility</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">If you’ve taken command of your life, you need to acknowledge any contribution you’ve made to a mistake and take responsibility for what happens afterward. Even if the mistake isn’t entirely your fault, it’s still your problem, and you still have a role to play in handling it.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When mistakes happen, the emotion default works hard to usurp control over the situation. It will take over if you let it. This is the opposite of taking command, leaving your life’s direction up to an emotional whim. It’s essential to keep your emotions in check. If you haven’t worked on building that strength, then there’s not much you can do. That’s why it’s important to practice continually.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_117" role="doc-pagebreak" title="117"/>Step 2: Learn from the Mistake</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Take time to reflect on what you contributed to the mistake, by exploring the various thoughts, feelings, and actions that got you here. If it’s an emergency, and you don’t have time to reflect at the moment, be sure to come back to it. If you don’t identify the problem’s causes, after all, you can’t fix them. And if you can’t fix them, you can’t do better in the future. Instead, you’ll be doomed to repeat the same mistake over and over.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you reach this stage and you find yourself blaming other people or saying things like, “This isn’t fair!” or “Why did this happen to me?” then you haven’t accepted responsibility for the mistake. You need to go back to Step 1.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Step 3: Commit to Doing Better</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Formulate a plan for doing better in the future. It could be a matter of building a strength like greater self-accountability or greater self-confidence. Or it could be a matter of installing a safeguard like my friend and coworker did when he realized he’d been failing to see things from other people’s points of view. Either way, you need to make a plan for doing better in the future, and follow through on that plan. Only then will you be able to change how you do things, and avoid repeating the mistakes of the past.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Step 4: Repair the Damage as Best You Can</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Most times it’s possible to repair the damage caused by a mistake. The longer your relationship with a person and the more consistent your behavior has been, the easier it is to repair. That doesn’t mean it happens instantly, though. Just as it takes <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_118" role="doc-pagebreak" title="118"/>a while for a wound to heal, it takes a while for a relationship to heal. It’s not enough to accept the impact of your behavior and sincerely apologize. You need to be consistent in doing better going forward. Any immediate deviation quickly reverses any repair.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Not all mistakes are like this. Some mistakes have consequences that are irreversible. The key here is not letting a bad situation become a worse situation.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A friend of mine is the general manager of a major sports team. When talking about mistakes, he told me about a mentor of his who had made a “bad trade” based on impulse, not reason. After the paperwork was signed, he couldn’t take it back. His mentor knew it was a mistake before the player suited up for their first game. His inner voice, the inner saboteur we all have, told him he was an imposter and now the whole world knew it. It told him he was an idiot. That little voice undid years of exceptional player management, eroding his confidence and paralyzing him, rendering him unable to make effective decisions under uncertainty. He kept thinking that gathering more data would help him remove uncertainty. It wasn’t long before he lost his job.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Mistakes turn into anchors if you don’t accept them. Part of accepting them is learning from them and then letting them go. We can’t change the past, but we can work to undo the effects it’s had on the future.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The most powerful story in the world is the one you tell yourself. That inner voice has the power to move you forward or anchor you to the past. Choose wisely.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>