<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 4.2: Explore Possible Solutions, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-26" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-48"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_135" role="doc-pagebreak" title="135"/>CHAPTER 4.2</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-49">Explore Possible Solutions</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Once you’re clear on the problem, it’s time to think of possible solutions—ways of overcoming the obstacles to get what you want. The way to come up with possible solutions is by imagining different possible futures—different ways the world could turn out.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One of the most common errors at this stage of the decision-making process is avoiding the brutal realities.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">In his book <i>Good to Great</i>, author Jim Collins tells the story of his interview with Admiral James Stockdale. During the Vietnam War, Stockdale was the highest-ranking US military officer at the notorious <span class="free">Hỏa</span> Lò prisoner of war camp (sarcastically dubbed the “Hanoi Hilton”). He was tortured over twenty times during an eight-year imprisonment and given no release date, no prisoner rights, and no certainty whether he would survive to see his family again.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When Collins asked Stockdale about his fellow prisoners who didn’t survive the camp, the admiral singled out the optimists. “Oh, they were the ones who said, ‘We’re going to be out <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_136" role="doc-pagebreak" title="136"/>by Christmas.’ And Christmas would come, and Christmas would go. Then they’d say, ‘We’re going to be out by Easter.’ And Easter would come, and Easter would go. And then Thanksgiving, and then it would be Christmas again. And they died of a broken heart.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">After a long pause, he turned to Collins and said, “This is a very important lesson. You must never confuse faith that you will prevail in the end—which you can never afford to lose—with the discipline to confront the most brutal facts of your current reality, whatever they might be.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber34" id="SuperscriptNumber34" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Collins called this combination of faith in prevailing with the discipline to confront brutal facts the Stockdale Paradox. He says he still carries with him the mental image of Stockdale admonishing the optimists: “We’re not getting out by Christmas; deal with it!”</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Problems Don’t Disappear by Themselves</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">We all face difficult problems. The defaults narrow our perspective. They narrow our view of the world and tempt us to see things as we wish them to be, not as they are. Only by dealing with reality—the often-brutal truth of how the world really works—can we secure the outcomes we want.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The worst thing we can do with a difficult problem is resort to magical thinking—putting our heads in the sand and hoping the problem will disappear on its own or that a solution will present itself to us.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The future is not like the weather. It doesn’t just happen to us. We shape our future with the choices we make in the present, just as our present situation was shaped by choices we made in the past.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Wherever we are now is a reflection of the past choices and <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_137" role="doc-pagebreak" title="137"/>behaviors that got us here. If we’re in a happy relationship, we can look back and see the years of effort, communication, negotiation, luck, and (possibly) therapy that got us to this point. If we wake up bleary-eyed and muddleheaded, we can see how excessive drinking the night before disrupted our sleep. If we’re operating a successful business, we can see how running lean at the right times, or perhaps doubling down when things weren’t so certain, contributed to our current success.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If only we had the benefit of hindsight for the decisions we make today—if only we could see the present with the insight and clarity we have about the past! The philosopher Søren Kierkegaard once said, “Life can only be understood backwards, but it must be lived forwards.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Luckily, there’s a way to convert the hindsight of tomorrow into the foresight of today. It’s a thought experiment that psychologists call <i>premortem</i>. The concept isn’t new, it originates in Stoic philosophy. Seneca used <i>premeditatio malorum</i> (“the premeditation of evils”) to prepare for the inevitable ups and downs of life. The point isn’t to worry about problems; it’s to fortify and prepare for them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The hardest setbacks to deal with are the ones we’re not prepared for and don’t expect. That’s why you need to anticipate them before they happen and act now in order to avoid them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Many people think they’re bad problem solvers when in fact they’re bad problem anticipators. Most of us don’t want to think about more problems; we have enough already. We think that before bad things happen, we’ll get a warning, we’ll have time to prepare, we’ll be ready. But the world doesn’t work that way.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Bad things happen to good people all the time. We get laid off without warning. We get into a car accident. Our boss <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_138" role="doc-pagebreak" title="138"/>comes into our office and lays into us. A pandemic spreads throughout the world. No warnings. No time to prepare.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Performing a premortem might not save you from every disaster, but you’ll be surprised by how many it can save you from. Here’s how it works.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">What Could Go Wrong?</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Imagining what could go wrong doesn’t make you pessimistic. It makes you prepared. If you haven’t thought about the things that could go wrong, you will be at the mercy of circumstances. Fear, anger, panic—when emotion consumes you, reason leaves you. You just react.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The antidote is this principle:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the bad outcome principle:</span> Don’t just imagine the ideal future outcome. Imagine the things that could go wrong and how you’ll overcome them if they do.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">If you’ve got a presentation to the board next week, imagine all the ways it could go wrong: What if technology fails? What if they can’t find the presentation? What if the audience isn’t engaged?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Leave nothing out of consideration. Nothing should surprise you. As Seneca said, “We need to envisage every possibility and . . . strengthen the spirit to deal with the things which may conceivably come about.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber35" id="SuperscriptNumber35" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When bad things happen, there is no two-minute warning where you get a commercial break to prepare. You have to deal with it as it happens. The best decision-makers know that bad things happen, and that they’re not immune. They don’t just wing it and react. They anticipate and make contingency plans. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_139" role="doc-pagebreak" title="139"/>And because they’re ready, their confidence doesn’t crack. The venture capitalist Josh Wolfe likes to say, “Failure comes from a failure to imagine failure.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber36" id="SuperscriptNumber36" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[3]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The bottom line: people who think about what’s likely to go wrong and determine the actions they can take are more likely to succeed when things don’t go according to plan.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A smart way to assess your options is by using the following principle.</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the second-level thinking principle:</span> Ask yourself, “And then what?”</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">When you solve a problem, you make a change in the world. That change can be either in line with your long-term objectives or not. For example, if you’re hungry and you eat a chocolate bar, you’ve solved the immediate hunger problem, but that solution has consequences: the inevitable sugar crash an hour or two later. If your longer-term goal is to be productive that afternoon, the chocolate bar is not the best solution to your immediate problem.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s true that eating a chocolate bar once won’t ruin your diet or your day. But repeating that seemingly small error in judgment daily over the course of your lifetime will not put you in a position for success. Tiny choices compound. That’s why second-level thinking is needed.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Second-Level Thinking</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Inside us all, there is a competition between our today self and our future self.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="80_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-041-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> Our future self often wants us to make <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_140" role="doc-pagebreak" title="140"/>different choices than our today self wants to make. While today you cares about winning the present moment, future you cares about winning the generation. Each of these personalities offers a different perspective on problems. Our future self sees the benefits or consequences of the accumulation of our seemingly insignificant choices.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can think of first-level thinking as your today self and second-level thinking as your future self.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">First-level thinking looks to solve the immediate problem without regard to any future problems a solution might produce. Second-level thinking looks at the problem from beginning to end. It looks past the immediate solution and asks, “And then what?”<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="81_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-040-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> The chocolate bar doesn’t seem so tempting when you answer this question.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can’t solve a problem optimally unless you consider not just whether it meets your short-term objectives but whether it meets your long-term objectives as well. A failure to think of second-order consequences leads us unknowingly to make bad decisions. You can’t ensure the future is easier if you only think about solving the current problem and don’t give due consideration to the problems created in the process. This idea is evident when looking back at the US war in Afghanistan.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">According to a report issued by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction,</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x06-Extract-1P">Many of the institutions and infrastructure projects the United States built were not sustainable. . . . Every mile <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_141" role="doc-pagebreak" title="141"/>of road the United States built and every government employee it trained was thought to serve as a springboard for even more improvements and to enable the reconstruction effort to eventually end. However, the U.S. government often failed to ensure its projects were sustainable over the long term. Billions of reconstruction dollars were wasted as projects went unused or fell into disrepair. Demands to make fast progress incentivized U.S. officials to identify and implement short-term projects with little consideration for host government capacity and long-term sustainability.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber37" id="SuperscriptNumber37" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[4]</a></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">By contrast, here’s an example of the Second-Level Thinking Principle in action. My friend’s client—call her Maria—is a mostly self-taught data scientist.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="82_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_3" id="footnote-039-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> She worked her way up through the startup world and became a reasonably successful executive at a tech company, where she spent five years. Her position recently disappeared overnight, when the company went under.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Her goals are to continue earning an executive’s salary (around $180k per year) while working from home and having a schedule that allows her to be present for her family. Ideally, she wants to work for a company committed to social responsibility. She has $100k in the bank, and wants to have a job within two years, but can wait as long as four. She currently has two job offers for less money than she wants, and neither job excites her very much. She’s considering going back to school for her master’s in the hopes that it’ll open up more employment options, but she knows she won’t be able to do <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_142" role="doc-pagebreak" title="142"/>schoolwork while holding a full-time position and still have time for her family.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Let’s now consider some possible solutions. Maria’s options include:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">Going back to school for a master’s degree</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Accepting one of the full-time positions she’s been offered at $90k per year</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Doing some consulting work</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">Continuing to look for other full-time opportunities</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Next, consider the immediate outcomes of these options:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First"><b>If Maria goes back to school,</b> it could mean thirty-plus hours a week doing school-related things. That would mean less time to dedicate to paid work or her family.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>If she accepts one of the full-time positions she’s been offered,</b> she would be making money and be able to pay her bills. It would be far less than she wants, but she could compensate by tightening her budget and saving more for retirement.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>If she does consulting work,</b> there are a lot of unknowns. She doesn’t know how much demand there is for her services, or how much she could earn providing them.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last"><b>If she continues looking for full-time opportunities,</b> she might lose the two job offers she has. She needs to give them a response in a reasonable amount of time.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Now that we have a sense of the immediate outcomes of Maria’s options, it’s time to apply second-level thinking. We must consider the outcomes of those outcomes, the answer to the question, “And then what?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_143" role="doc-pagebreak" title="143"/>Let’s apply the Bad Outcome Principle as we go through the options, thinking not just about the case in which everything goes well, but also the case in which things go poorly.</p>
			<h3 class="x07-List-Bulleted-Head">Maria goes back to school:</h3>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>If it goes well:</b> She gets a scholarship, develops a great network, gains skills, and opens up a lot of opportunities for herself. The new problem in this case is turning those skills into a role that she wants and that pays well.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last"><b>If it goes poorly:</b> She doesn’t learn any skills that people are actually hiring for, and takes on debt in the process. The new problem in this case is paying her bills on top of debt while searching for a job that’s even more elusive than before.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">We can now see that Maria needs to gather some further information to determine whether going back to school is her best option:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">Whether or not she can get a scholarship</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">How well the school is networked in the private sector</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Whether people are hiring for the skills she’ll develop and what they’re willing to pay</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">How long it will take her to make $180k a year with the new skills she’ll have</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<h3 class="x07-List-Bulleted-Head">Maria accepts one of the full-time positions she’s been offered:</h3>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>If it goes well:</b> She makes less than she wants, but there’s room to grow at the company. There are at least three new problems in this case: (1) figuring out how to close the wage gap and retire when she wants, (2) figuring out how to move up in the company, and (3) finding opportunities outside of work to fulfill her desire for social responsibility.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_144" role="doc-pagebreak" title="144"/><b>If it goes poorly:</b> She’s in another job she’s not passionate about and making less money than she wants. The new problem in this case isn’t all that new: she’ll be in more or less the same situation she’s in right now but with some income.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Here’s the further information Maria needs to gather to determine whether accepting one of these full-time positions is her best option:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">Her chances of liking her job</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Her chances of moving up in the company</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">What experience the job will give her so she can move on if she wants</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">Whether she can go back to school or do consulting work while she does the job</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<h3 class="x07-List-Bulleted-Head">Maria does consulting work:</h3>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>If it goes well:</b> It could lead to her own business and increased flexibility. The new problem in this case is figuring out how to scale a business.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last"><b>If it goes poorly:</b> Her consulting opportunities are few and far between, and she misses out on the job offers. The new problem in this case is figuring out her next move. She’ll be in the same position she’s in now but with less runway: she’ll have less time to accept an offer.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">We now know what further information Maria needs to gather to evaluate this option:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">Whether people are willing to pay her for her current knowledge and skills</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">How much they are willing to pay</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_145" role="doc-pagebreak" title="145"/>Maria’s example illustrates an important point about second-level thinking: it not only helps us avoid future problems, it also uncovers information we need to make a better decision—information we didn’t know we needed before. It’s easy to sit back and think the right information will find you. It won’t!</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">How to Safeguard the Solution-Exploring Stage</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Just because you’ve thought of a couple solutions, though, doesn’t mean you’ve eliminated your blind spots. Binary thinking is when you consider only two options to a problem. When you first look at the choice, it seems simple: We launch the product or we don’t. We take the new job or we don’t. We get married or we don’t. It’s black and white: “do” or “do not.” There isn’t any middle ground.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Most of the time, though, this type of thinking is limiting. Some decisions might seem to come down to a choice between this or that, but there’s often another option. The best decision-makers know this, and see binary thinking as a sign that we don’t fully understand a problem—that we’re trying to reduce the problem’s dimensions before fully understanding them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When we start exploring a problem in detail, things become more complicated before we understand it well enough to see the alternatives.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Problem-solving novices try to reduce a decision to just two options because it creates the false sense that they’ve gotten to the problem’s essence. In reality, they’ve just stopped thinking. And you never want to stop thinking! Novices fail to see the complexities of a problem that are apparent to a master. Masters see the simplicity hiding in the complexity. As Frederic Maitland purportedly once wrote, “Simplicity is the end result of long, hard work, not the starting point.” When we reduce <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_146" role="doc-pagebreak" title="146"/>the problem to black-and-white solutions, we need to check to make sure we’re the master and not the novice.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">This brings us to the next principle of effective problem-solving:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the </span><span class="_-sc">3</span><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">+ principle:</span> Force yourself to explore at least three possible solutions to a problem. If you find yourself considering only two options, force yourself to find at least one more.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Binary framing is as comfortable as it is passive. Doing the work to add a third option forces us to be creative and really dig into the problem. Even if we don’t choose the third option, forcing ourselves to develop it helps us understand the problem better. It gives us more opportunities to align our decisions with our goals, offers more optionality in the future, and increases the chances that we’ll be happier with our decision down the road.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There are two safeguards against binary thinking. The first is this:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">safeguard:</span> <i class="TG-ITAL">Imagine that one of the options is off the table.</i> Take each of the options you’re considering, and one at a time, ask yourself, “What would I do if that were not possible?”</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Suppose you’re considering what to do about a job where you don’t get along with a coworker. Binary thinking tells you to stay or leave. Imagining that one option is off the table forces you to see the problem differently. Imagine that, for some <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_147" role="doc-pagebreak" title="147"/>reason, there is absolutely no way to quit your job: You must stay. Now you are forced to see things through a new lens. What could you do to make going to work every day more enjoyable, despite the problem with your coworker? What could you do to remain at your job and still move closer to your goals? What could you do to give yourself more options in the future so you’re not stuck feeling powerless? Maybe staying means having a hard conversation with your boss and your coworker that you haven’t had yet. Maybe it means putting in for a transfer to another department. Maybe it means asking your boss if you can work remotely.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Now try looking at this situation the other way. Imagine that, for some reason, there is absolutely no way you can stay at your job: You have to leave. What would you do? Would you call up old clients and see if they need help? Would you get hold of people in your network to see if they could make an introduction at their company? Would you pursue every possibility until you found yourself in a better position?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Sometimes we can’t do what we want when we want, like leaving a job that’s become difficult to endure. But that doesn’t mean we’re stuck. We can always do something to move forward, putting ourselves in a better position to get more of what we want and less of what we don’t. If we can’t leave our job, we can at least improve it. If we can’t stay, we can prepare to leave. Reframing the problem shows us the next step.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Remember: Limiting ourselves to binary thinking before fully understanding a problem is a dangerous simplification that creates blind spots. False dualities prevent you from seeing alternative paths and other information that might change your mind. On the other hand, taking away one of two clear options forces you to reframe the problem and get unstuck.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_148" role="doc-pagebreak" title="148"/>Here’s the second safeguard against binary thinking:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">safeguard:</span> <i class="TG-ITAL">Come up with Both-And options.</i> Try to find ways of combining the binary. Think not in terms of choosing either X or Y, but rather having both X and Y.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Roger Martin, former dean of the Rotman School of Management in Toronto, refers to this technique as <i>integrative thinking</i>.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber38" id="SuperscriptNumber38" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[5]</a> Rather than grappling with seemingly opposed binary options, combine them. Simplistic Either-Or options become integrative Both-And options. You can keep costs down <i>and</i> invest in a better customer experience. You can stay at your job <i>and</i> start a side hustle. You can deliver for your shareholders <i>and</i> protect the environment.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">F. Scott Fitzgerald once said, “The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function. One should, for example, be able to see that things are hopeless and yet be determined to make them otherwise.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Unlike Fitzgerald, though, I don’t think you need to have first-rate intelligence to come up with Both-And options. The capacity for combinatorial solutions isn’t reserved for the gifted. It’s a skill that can be learned and used; it’s just a skill that goes untaught. The key is learning to live with the uncomfortable tension between opposing ideas long enough to see that there’s a solution that combines the best elements of both. And that’s what integrative thinking is all about.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It can be challenging to think this way, yet it’s almost always possible. One area where we tend to be pretty good at integrative thinking is vacation planning. We ask everyone involved what they want to do, and then try to find a place that has it all. This is why resorts or cruises offer a long list <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_149" role="doc-pagebreak" title="149"/>of activities: the more variety, the more attractive they are to groups with diverse interests. Guests in such places rarely face a hard choice between, say, the beach or the pool. They can have both.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can apply the same thinking to other areas of your life, including your career. The solution to an unfulfilling job is rarely just one option in the stay-or-go binary, even if it seems that way at first. You can <i>both</i> stay <i>and</i> begin reaching out to your network. You can <i>both</i> apply for jobs <i>and</i> go to school in the evenings to acquire a new skill. You can <i>both</i> start a creative project <i>and</i> do more at your current job to give you the creative outlet you need.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Roger Martin put it this way: “Thinkers who exploit opposing ideas to construct a new solution enjoy a built-in advantage over thinkers who can consider only one model at a time.” He’s right. Not only do integrative thinkers build an advantage, they also tend to capture exponential upside because they break free of traditional ways of thinking.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Consider Isadore Sharp, who created the luxurious Four Seasons hotel chain. Sharp’s first property was a small roadside hotel in the Toronto suburbs. His second was a large convention hotel in the heart of the city. Each property represented one of the conventional operating models of the time: either going small and focusing on personal service or going large and focusing on amenities. The hotel industry was stuck in binary thinking. Rather than choose between them, though, Sharp combined the intimacy of a small hotel with the amenities of a large one. In the process he created a new way of operating and one of the most successful hotel chains of all time.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Our personal lives also benefit from Both-And thinking. For example, we often expect our partners to fulfill 100 percent of our emotional needs. That’s a lot to ask of anyone, and <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_150" role="doc-pagebreak" title="150"/>many of us experience relationship challenges when disappointments inevitably result. But instead of asking, “Should I stay or leave?” ask instead, “Is there anyone else that could meet some of the emotional needs that my partner can’t? Is there a colleague that I could vent to at work? Do I have a friend who shares this interest or who will take this class with me?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When we think of adding people to our lives, we start to open up Both-And options for ourselves. So instead of the usual relationship binary, “Should I stay or leave?” we start to say, “Whom else can I include in my life to help with everything beyond what my partner does well?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We don’t need a lot of additional options, just a few really good ones. When you hear yourself say, “Either X or Y,” it means you’re entering the narrow pathway between a rock and a hard place—a binary decision. Digging in and forcing yourself to add credible alternative options allows you to see solutions you may not have considered before.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Opportunity Costs</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Thinking better isn’t about filling your brain with answers to questions you’ve seen before. It’s not about memorizing what to do and when. It’s not about letting other people think for you either. It’s about looking beyond the things that are obvious and seeing the things that are hidden from view.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The real world is full of trade-offs, some of which are obvious, and others that are hidden. Opportunity costs are the hidden trade-offs that decision-makers often have trouble assessing. Every decision has at least one of them. Because we can’t always do everything we want, picking one thing usually means forgoing another. The ability to size up hidden trade-offs is part <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_151" role="doc-pagebreak" title="151"/>of what separates great decision-makers from the rest. It’s also a core element of leadership.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Charlie Munger put it this way: “Intelligent people make decisions based on opportunity costs . . . it’s your alternatives that matter. That’s how we make all of our decisions.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber39" id="SuperscriptNumber39" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[6]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Improving our thinking isn’t just about having the answers to questions we’ve encountered before. It’s not about memorizing a set of predetermined actions. It’s not about relying on others to do the thinking for us. It’s about delving deeper, beyond the surface level, and uncovering what lies hidden from our view.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Many people focus solely on what they stand to gain by choosing an option and forget to factor in what they stand to lose by forgoing another. But the ability to size up these costs is one of the things that separates great decision-makers from the rest.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One of my favorite examples of this is a story about Andrew Carnegie. When Carnegie was young and relatively inexperienced in his job at the Pennsylvania Railroad, there was a bad train wreck that left train cars strewn across the tracks and gridlocked the entire system. Carnegie’s boss was absent, so Carnegie himself had to decide how to handle the event. Cleaning up the cars would save much of the cargo, but it would be a long and costly operation and would suspend all train traffic for days. Carnegie realized that a multiday system-wide shutdown wasn’t worth the cost of the cargo and the cars. He sent a bold note signed in his boss’s name: “Burn the cars!” When Carnegie’s boss learned of his choice, he instantly made it the routine method of dealing with similar emergencies in the future.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber40" id="SuperscriptNumber40" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[7]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Thinking through opportunity costs is one of the most <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_152" role="doc-pagebreak" title="152"/>effective things you can do in business and in life. The optimal way of exploring your options is to take all the relevant factors into account. You can’t do this without considering opportunity costs.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">There are two principles concerning opportunity costs. The first is this:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the opportunity-cost principle:</span> Consider what opportunities you’re forgoing when you choose one option over another.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The second principle is closely related:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the </span><span class="_-sc">3</span><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">-lens principle:</span> View opportunity costs through these three lenses: (1) Compared with what? (2) And then what? (3) At the expense of what?<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="83_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_4" id="footnote-038-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">For most of us, the first lens is our default because the costs are direct and visible. For instance, think about purchasing a car. If you’re like most people, you can narrow the decision down to a few options pretty quickly: “The Tesla will look extra cool and be fuel efficient, but will it be good for road trips? A BMW looks great and has more cargo space, but is a gas-powered vehicle behind the curve? Should I get the car that’s $42,000 or $37,000?” When we compare the two models, we focus on what the additional $5,000 gets us in terms of features, and forget to view the choice through the other two lenses.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When we view the choice through the second lens, we consider the additional costs that will arise after we’ve selected an <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_153" role="doc-pagebreak" title="153"/>option—for example, how we’ll need to charge the Tesla, its anticipated yearly operating costs, its durability, and how many long drives we’ll go on annually. When we view the choice through the third lens, we consider what else we could do with that $5,000. Are we giving up a family vacation? What about the dividends we could get if we invested it? What about the savings if we pay down the mortgage? What about a rainy-day fund in case we lose our job? Looking through all three lenses helps us make a better decision.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Money is not the only opportunity cost to consider. It’s just the most direct and visible, and for that reason people tend to focus on it. They convince themselves that what’s easy to see is all that matters. But in many cases, the real value to thinking through opportunity costs is to understand the indirect hidden costs.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Time is not as easy to see as money but it’s just as important. Suppose your family is growing, and it’s time to move. Relocating to the suburbs will get you a bigger house with a bigger yard for the kids, and it’ll be cheaper than buying a smaller duplex downtown with a backyard the size of a postage stamp. In this situation, many people think of how much money they’ll save by moving to the suburbs, and get caught up in the happy thought of walking across the threshold of their new home for the first time. But this way of thinking views the situation through only the first lens. It doesn’t disclose the less obvious costs of living in the suburbs. When we apply the other two lenses, we start seeing those costs more clearly.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Let’s apply the second lens. Suppose you buy that house in the suburbs. Ask yourself, “And then what?” How will your circumstances change if you choose that option? For one thing, your commute might be different. Perhaps it goes from <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_154" role="doc-pagebreak" title="154"/>a predictable half hour each way to an unpredictable hour and a half.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Now apply the third lens. Ask yourself, “At the expense of what?” What are you not going to be able to do because you’re spending an extra two to three hours a day in transit? Will you spend less time with your kids and your partner? What will you miss out on by not being with them? Will you be able to spend the commute learning a new language or reading some great literature, or will you have to deal with the frustration and stress of driving? Over time, which option is better for your mental and physical health?</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">tip:</span> If you’re having trouble assessing opportunity costs, it sometimes helps to put a price on them. For example, putting a price on those extra two to three hours a day spent commuting will make them more visible and easier to assess.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Keep in mind, though, that pricing things whose costs are difficult to assess is just a tool. Like any tool, it’s useful for some jobs, but not useful for all. It’s an attempt to make the invisible visible. Sometimes there are important factors that you simply can’t put a price on without grossly distorting the trade-offs. As Einstein is thought to have said, “Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted.” We’ll see later on that assessing these “priceless” factors is something that the wisest decision-makers have mastered.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>