<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 4.3: Evaluate the Options, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-27" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-50"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_155" role="doc-pagebreak" title="155"/>CHAPTER 4.3</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-51">Evaluate the Options</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">You’ve worked out some potential solutions in detail. Each suggests a course of action that might work. You now need to evaluate the options and pick the one most likely to make the future easier. There are two components here: (1) your criteria for evaluating the options and (2) how you apply them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Each problem has its own specific criteria. Some of the more common ones include opportunity cost, return on investment (ROI), and likelihood of the desired outcome, but there are many others. When you understand the problem, the criteria should be apparent. Recently I undertook a renovation. Some of my criteria included experience of the crew, availability, demonstrated pace on past projects, and quality of craftmanship.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you find yourself struggling to determine specific criteria, it’s a sign either that you don’t really understand the problem, or that you don’t understand the general features that criteria are supposed to have. Those features include the following:</p>
			<div role="list">
				<p class="x07-List-Unnumbered-First" role="listitem"><b><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_156" role="doc-pagebreak" title="156"/>Clarity:</b> The criteria should be simple, clear, and free of any jargon. Ideally, you should be able to explain them to a twelve-year-old.</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Unnumbered" role="listitem"><b>Goal promotion:</b> The criteria must favor only those options that achieve the desired goal.</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Unnumbered-Last" role="listitem"><b>Decisiveness:</b> The criteria must favor exactly one option; they can’t result in a tie among several.</p>
			</div>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Criteria that fail to satisfy these conditions often lead to decision-making errors. When criteria are too complicated, people have trouble knowing how to apply them. When they are ambiguous, people have a green light to interpret them in whichever way suits them. As a result, people end up applying criteria in different ways based on what they want or how they feel at the moment. Their decision-making process becomes a playground for the emotion default.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When deciding at work, criteria that are ambiguous or jargon-laden lend themselves to endless debates as to their meaning. We assume that everyone has a shared understanding of what these words and phrases mean. They don’t. We assume that our own definitions won’t change. They might. What a word like “strategic” means to one person is often different from what it means to another. As a result, ambiguous criteria rob decision-makers of their ability to distinguish who’s right from who’s wrong, and force debates about semantics instead of which potential solution is the best.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Other times the criteria don’t promote the goal. This is often the social default’s doing. One common example is when leaders make decisions about hiring or promotion based not on someone’s qualifications but on their likeable personality. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_157" role="doc-pagebreak" title="157"/>Being nice is not the same as being good at your job. Using niceness as a criterion in personnel decisions frequently doesn’t promote the goals of the organization.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Sometimes criteria can promote the wrong goal—steering a team toward what it can do soonest, perhaps, instead of what’s best for the company in the long run. A tragic example happened in January 1986.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The space shuttle <i>Challenger</i> was scheduled to take off in just a few short weeks. NASA had been trying to establish the space shuttle as a reliable way of conducting commercial and scientific missions in space, and adopted an incredibly ambitious launch schedule. NASA had coordinated with President Ronald Reagan to launch the shuttle the same day as his State of the Union address. The plan was for it to be a spectacular media event, with schools across the country lined up to receive their first science lessons from outer space.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">But days before the launch, during a preflight meeting, engineers from Morton Thiokol, a contractor on the <i>Challenger</i> project, were shouting and in tears. They knew that the temperatures predicted for the date of the launch were likely too cold for the shuttle’s O-rings to function successfully. If the O-rings failed, the result would be catastrophic. They wanted time to fix the problem or wait for warmer launch temperatures, and begged NASA to delay the launch. Their pleas were rejected. “I am appalled by your recommendation,” one NASA official said. “When do you want me to launch? Next April?” said another.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber41" id="SuperscriptNumber41" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> Most of us who lived through the ’80s remember what happened next; the <i>Challenger</i> exploded seventy-three seconds after taking off. The criteria for the launch date decision should obviously have been focused on promoting the goal of safety, not speed.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_158" role="doc-pagebreak" title="158"/>The inertia default can also inspire us to adopt criteria that aren’t goal promoting. For example, upper management might fail to see that market conditions have changed. Rather than taking the time to understand the new conditions and adjust their criteria accordingly, they continue using the criteria they’ve used in the past even though those criteria aren’t goal promoting in the present.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Criteria can also fail to be decisive. If they don’t help you narrow the options, they’re not useful. Indecisive criteria are another sign that you don’t fully understand the problem and are operating out of fear that you’ll be wrong. The social default preys on people who don’t want to take responsibility for outcomes or who don’t have clear ideas of what they want.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Think of choosing a restaurant for dinner with a group of friends. Someone will make an initial suggestion—like eating Mexican—and inevitably someone else will say, “I just had Mexican last night.” Then you’ll hear, “What about salads?” and someone will say, “I’m too hungry for salad.” On and on ad nauseam: people say what they don’t want until the group is so hungry they pick whatever is most convenient. I’ve seen this situation play out the same way so often it’s comical. (Pay attention the next time it’s happening to you!)</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The problem here is that in many cases, purely negative criteria aren’t decisive: they don’t narrow the field of options down to one. As a result, people end up leaving the ultimate choice up to chance or circumstance. As the old saying goes, “If you don’t know where you want to go, any road will take you there.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Suppose, by contrast, that when you and your friends were deciding where to eat, each of you stated not what you didn’t want but rather what you did:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_159" role="doc-pagebreak" title="159"/>“I want somewhere that serves salads within ten minutes’ walking distance.”</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">“I want somewhere that serves burgers.”</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">“I really don’t care; I just want to eat soon.”</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Making the decision would be much faster, and it would be more likely to get more people what they wanted.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Defining the Most Important Thing</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Not all criteria are the same. There might be a hundred variables, but they are not equally important. When you’re clear on what’s important, evaluating options becomes easier. Many people are shy to pick out the most important thing because they don’t want to be wrong.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you don’t communicate what’s most important, people are left guessing about what matters. They need you to solve the problem for them. While you feel needed and important, you’re also busy making all the decisions that your colleagues should be making.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A lot of managers secretly enjoy being the bottleneck. They like the way it feels when their team is dependent on them. Don’t be fooled! This is the ego default at work, and it puts a ceiling on how far you will go. It tries to convince you that you’re the best; that you’re so smart, so skilled, so insightful that only you can make the decisions. In reality, you’re just getting in the way of the team performing at its best.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I learned this lesson the hard way. I had just taken over a team and was surprised that they would check in with me before making any decisions—a pattern their previous manager had established.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_160" role="doc-pagebreak" title="160"/>To speed things up, I came up with a system for them to sort decisions into three boxes:</p>
			<div role="list">
				<p class="x07-List-Numbered-First" role="listitem">1. decisions they could make without any input from me,</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Numbered" role="listitem">2. decisions they could make after sharing their reasoning with me so I could double-check their judgment, and</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Numbered-Last" role="listitem">3. decisions I wanted to make myself.</p>
			</div>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">But the problem persisted.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">After a few months, I consulted my mentor. “Do they know what decisions they should make and what decisions you want to make?” he asked. “Are the boxes clear?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Yes,” I replied, “but due to the operational nature of our job, if I’m not around, they have to make decisions in the third box without me. That’s where we’re running into the biggest problems. They seem incapable of doing that.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Do they know the one thing that’s most important?” he probed.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“I’m not sure what you mean,” I said. “What’s most important differs for each decision.” I listed off a few different types of decisions and how the variables were different.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“That’s not what I mean,” he replied. “Do they know what you value most?” I hesitated. He looked me square in the eye. “Shane, do <i>you</i> know what you value most?” I stared at him blankly. He sighed. “The problem isn’t your team. It’s you. You don’t know what’s most important. Until you do, your team will never make decisions without you. It’s too risky for them to figure out the most important thing. Communicate that to your team, and they’ll be able to make decisions on their own.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“What if they make the wrong decision?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“As long as they make a decision based on the most important thing, they won’t be wrong.” He paused, then said <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_161" role="doc-pagebreak" title="161"/>slowly, “A lot of people reach their ceiling in this job because they can’t figure out this one thing.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I learned three important lessons that day. First, I couldn’t expect my team to make decisions on their own unless I told them how I wanted them to make those decisions. That meant focusing on the single most important thing and not inundating them with hundreds of variables to consider. Second, if they made the decision with the most important thing in mind, and it turned out wrong, I couldn’t get upset with them. If I did that, they’d never make decisions without me. The third lesson was perhaps the most revealing: I myself didn’t know what the most important thing was. That’s why I couldn’t tell them.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">How to Safeguard the Evaluation Stage</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">There is only one most important thing in every project, goal, and company. If you have two or more most important things, you’re not thinking clearly. This is an important aspect of leadership and problem-solving in general: you have to pick one criterion above all the others and communicate it in a way that your people can understand so they can make decisions on their own. This is true leadership. You need to be clear about what values people are to use when making decisions. If I tell you the most important thing is serving the customer, you know how to make decisions without me. If you make a bad judgment call, but it puts the customer first, I can’t fault you. You did what I wanted.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">But identifying what’s most important is a skill. It takes practice. Here’s how.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I recommend using sticky notes for this exercise. First, on each sticky note, write out one criterion—one thing that’s important to you—in evaluating your options.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_162" role="doc-pagebreak" title="162"/>For example, before I decided to invest in Pixel Union—one of the largest and best design agencies in the Shopify universe—I wrote down some criteria that were important to me.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">They included:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">A win-win for employees, customers, and shareholders</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Growing rather than shrinking the business</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Working with people I trust</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Not having to manage people or add more to my plate</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Not borrowing money</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">A high probability of a decent return on investment</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">There are many more, but you get the idea. Place only one criterion on each sticky note because next, we’re going to make your criteria battle.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Choose whichever criterion you think is the most important to you and place it on the wall. Then grab another criterion. Compare each and ask, “If I absolutely had to choose between only these two, which matters more?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">So to return to my example of investing in Pixel Union, the first battle might be this: earning a return on investment versus not having to manage people or add more to my plate.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If I could have only one of these—if either earning a return on my investment required managing people, or not managing people entailed making less money—which would it be? I’d choose earning more money even if it involved managing people. So I’d move that criterion higher.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Of course, I’d be willing to manage people only up to a point. If doing that became too time-consuming, I might have to reverse the order. That leads us to the next step: adding quantities. As your criteria battle one another, you’ll find quantities make a difference. Add them to each criterion as they battle.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_163" role="doc-pagebreak" title="163"/>Suppose I find that I’m willing to spend five to ten additional hours per week managing people or being hands on, so long as my ROI is at least 15 percent per year. If I’d have to invest ten-plus hours per week, my ROI would have to be at least 20 percent per year, and if I’d have to invest twenty-plus hours per week, it would no longer be worth it to me—regardless of anticipated return—because of the opportunity cost of that time.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you’ve finished ordering these two criteria, go to the next pair. Move from top to bottom, make your criteria battle one another for priority, and add the quantities that matter to you along the way.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When people do this exercise, they often look at a pair of criteria and think, “I don’t necessarily have to choose between those two.” Make them battle anyway! The point isn’t really to compare them, it’s to find out which one is more important. Maybe in real life you can satisfy both criteria—maybe, for instance, you can get a high ROI while investing in a socially responsible company, or you can get in shape while still eating out three times a week, or you can buy a house in a great location that fits your budget. But often, when we actually start pursuing an option, we find that we have to rank one criterion above another—even if only slightly. Most of the time, making your criteria battle is about calibrating shades of gray. It’s a mental exercise that takes you out of reactive mode and moves you toward deliberative thinking.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Assigning quantitative values to your criteria often helps at this point. When you start comparing things and thinking how much you’ll pay for them—and whether in a currency of time, money, collective brain power—you gain clarity about what matters most to you and what doesn’t. You’re forced to think in terms of benefits and risks, and you start to see things <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_164" role="doc-pagebreak" title="164"/>you didn’t see before—previously invisible costs become visible. For all of these reasons, making your criteria battle moves you toward objectivity and accuracy, and helps reveal what you think is most important.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Once you’ve settled on your criteria and their order of importance, it’s time to apply them to the options. Doing so requires that you have information about those options that meets two conditions: it’s <i>relevant</i>, and it’s <i>accurate</i>.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Most Information Is Irrelevant</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">When it comes to getting information that’s relevant to the decision, remember this:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the targeting principle:</span> Know what you’re looking for before you start sorting through the data.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">If you don’t know what you’re looking for, you’re unlikely to find it, just as you’re unlikely to hit the target if you don’t know what you’re aiming at. When you don’t know what’s important, you miss things that are relevant and spend a lot of time on things that are irrelevant.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Most information is irrelevant. Knowing what to ignore—separating the signal from the noise—is the key to not wasting valuable time. Think, for example, of investment decisions. The best investors know which variables probabilistically govern the outcomes, and they pay attention to those. They don’t ignore everything else, but focusing primarily on those variables allows them to filter massive amounts of information very quickly.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">People who can quickly distinguish what matters from what doesn’t gain a huge advantage in a world where the flow of information never stops.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_165" role="doc-pagebreak" title="165"/>Knowing what to ignore allows you to focus on what matters. Follow the example of the best investors and know the variables that matter for evaluating the options <i>before</i> you start sorting through information.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Getting Accurate Information from the Source</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">When it comes to getting information that’s accurate, there are two principles you should know: the HiFi Principle and the HiEx Principle. The first will help you find the best intel possible from within any given situation, and the second will help you find the best intel possible from outside of it.</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the hifi principle:</span> Get high-fidelity (HiFi) information—information that’s close to the source and unfiltered by other people’s biases and interests.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The quality of your decisions is directly related to the quality of your thoughts. The quality of your thoughts is directly related to the quality of your information.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Many people treat all sources of information as if they’re equally valid. They’re not. While you might value getting everyone’s opinion, that doesn’t mean each opinion should be equally weighted or considered.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A lot of the information we consume is in the form of highlights, summaries, or distillations. It’s the illusion of knowledge. We learn the answer but can’t show our work.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Consider what happens when you consult a nutritionist. They take their years of experience and knowledge and compress it into a list of foods to eat and behaviors to implement. If you just want the answer, they will tell you what to eat and how much. This is an abstraction; it’s like you’re back in sixth-grade <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_166" role="doc-pagebreak" title="166"/>math class, copying answers from the person beside you. Sure, you got the right answer, but you don’t know why it’s the answer. You lack understanding, and information without understanding is dangerous.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s natural to think these abstractions will save us time and improve our decision-making, but in many cases they don’t. Reading a summary might be faster than reading a full document, but it misses a lot of details—details that weren’t relevant to the person summarizing the information, but that might be relevant to you. You end up saving time at the cost of missing important information. Skimming inadvertently creates blind spots.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Information is food for the mind. What you put in today shapes your solutions tomorrow. And just as you are responsible for the food that goes into your mouth, you are responsible for the information that goes into your mind. You can’t be healthy if you feed yourself junk food every day, and you can’t make good decisions if you’re consuming low-quality information. Higher quality inputs lead to higher quality outputs.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The desire for abstractions is understandable. The amount of information that bombards us daily can feel overwhelming. But the further the information is from the original source, the more filters it’s been through before getting to you. Living on a diet of abstractions is like living on a diet of junk food: it has less nutritional value—less information content, which means you’re not learning as much.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Real knowledge is earned, while abstractions are merely borrowed. Too often decision-makers get their information and observations from sources that are multiple degrees removed from the problem. Relying on these abstractions is a prime opportunity for the ego default to work its mischief. It conjures <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_167" role="doc-pagebreak" title="167"/>the illusion of knowledge: we feel confident about what to do without really understanding the problem.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">You can’t make good decisions with bad information. In fact, when you see people making decisions that don’t make sense to you, chances are they’re based on different information than you’ve consumed. Just as junk food eventually makes you unhealthy, bad inputs eventually produce bad decisions.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">How do we get better information?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The person closest to the problem often has the most accurate information about it. What they tend to lack is a broader perspective. The person working on the line at McDonald’s knows how to fix a recurring problem at their restaurant better than a person merely analyzing some data. What they don’t know is how it fits into the bigger picture. They don’t know whether the problem exists everywhere, or whether the solution would cause more harm than good if implemented globally, or how to roll the idea out to everyone.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">My friend Tim Urban has a good metaphor to explain this concept. In the restaurant business, there are chefs and there are line cooks.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber42" id="SuperscriptNumber42" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a> Both can follow a recipe. When things go according to plan, there is no difference in the process or the result. But when things go wrong, the chef knows why. The line cook often does not. The chef has cultivated depth of understanding through years of experience, experimentation, and reflection, and as a result, the chef, rather than the line cook, can diagnose problems when they arise.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="84_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-044-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">History shows that the greatest thinkers all used information <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_168" role="doc-pagebreak" title="168"/>that they collected personally. They earned their knowledge the hard way either in the trenches of experience or through careful study of exemplars. They looked for raw, unfiltered information, and ventured out into the world to interact with it directly.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Leonardo da Vinci is a great example. He kept journals throughout his life, and they contain notes about how he went about getting the right information. He wrote things like, “Get the master of arithmetic to show you how to square a triangle,” and “Get a master of hydraulics to tell you how to repair a lock, canal and mill in the Lombard manner.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Great thinkers understand the importance of high-quality information, and that other people’s abstractions are often limited in their usefulness.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">As information travels up an organization, it tends to lose quality and nuance. Remember that children’s game, telephone: you whisper a sentence to the next person, and that person whispers it to the next, and after it passes through half the class, the message is nothing like the original sentence. No single person necessarily changes it much, but the more people it passes through, the more all those little changes accumulate. The same thing happens when information travels through an organization. It goes through multiple filters, including individual levels of understanding, political interpretation, and biases. Details are abstracted from the original, and the signal is lost. The various incentives people have when they communicate information end up complicating things even further.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The problem isn’t merely that people are unreliable transmitters of information; the problem is also that there are limitations on the information that abstractions can represent. Think of a road map. It’s an abstract representation of a real landscape. That landscape includes rocks, plants, animals, cities, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_169" role="doc-pagebreak" title="169"/>wind, and weather, along with many other things. We don’t represent all of them when we map the landscape, only those things that interest us—for example, roads, rivers, and geographical boundaries. We pull these features away from the original and represent them in a way that makes them stand out. (That’s in fact what the word “abstract” means: “to pull away from.”)</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Removing what doesn’t serve our interests is what makes a map useful. But somewhere in the process, someone has decided what’s useful and what isn’t based on what interests them. What if we’re interested in something else? What if we’re interested in population densities or geological strata? A road map isn’t designed to highlight these concepts, so it’s not going to be very useful to us.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">What’s true of maps is true of any other abstractions: by nature, they’re designed to serve the interests of their designers. If those designers don’t have the same interests as you, their abstractions aren’t going to give you the information you need. Similarly, any information you may get from a secondhand source has likely been filtered through that source’s interests. Since your interests are likely different from theirs, their summaries, highlights, and descriptions are likely to leave out relevant information that could help you with your decision.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I learned the importance of accurate information while working for the CEO of a large company. Nothing crossed his desk without going through me first. Early one morning I saw an email from one of his direct reports flagging a technical problem that was affecting operations. After I told him what I’d heard about the problem, he asked a simple question: “Where did you get this information?” I replied that I’d heard it from the VP in charge of the division. The look on his face instantly turned to disappointment. Moments passed in silence.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_170" role="doc-pagebreak" title="170"/>Finally, he spoke softly, telling me that his decisions could only be as good as his information.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">He wasn’t getting the raw HiFi information. He knew that people in the organization had an incentive to convey things in a way that covered up mistakes or made themselves look good. And he knew that those filters would obscure rather than clarify the situation.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you want to make better decisions, you need better information. Whenever possible, you need to learn something, see something, or do something for yourself. Sometimes the best information is the least transmissible.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">HiFi Information Reveals Better Options</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">United States general George Marshall was a supremely competent and selfless leader. He never left the welfare of his troops to chance. He valued HiFi information and always went to the source.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">At one point during World War II, the War Department ran into a difficult situation with the Air Force in the Pacific: pilots were refusing to fly. The reports Marshall received suggested there was something wrong with the planes. It wasn’t a matter of parts. They were getting all the parts they were asking for. Marshall asked if the pilots wanted the planes modified in some way. The American planes were heavier and less maneuverable than the Japanese Zeros, so he had a plane stripped of its armor to reduce its weight. But that wasn’t the problem. The pilots didn’t want their planes stripped of armor.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Marshall struggled to understand what was going on. Talking to the commander gave him no insight, so he did what he often would: he sent someone “to look around and see things that weren’t being reported—not just what they were yelling about.” <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_171" role="doc-pagebreak" title="171"/>No one likes the person sent from the head office to check on things—neither the commander nor the line cook. Everyone is suspicious. But Marshall needed eyes and ears on the ground to get to the heart of the matter. He knew he’d only get answers by going directly to the source.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">What Marshall’s direct report uncovered was that the Air Force ground crews didn’t have any protection from mosquitoes. They had to work on the planes at night under electric lights, which attracted insects, and those mosquitoes were feasting on them. The mechanics had gotten so full of malaria or antimalarial medication that the pilots didn’t trust their work and refused to fly.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The people back at headquarters, in mosquito-protected areas, had no idea what was really going on in the field. They were focused on combat supplies—ammunition, parts, food—but not mosquito netting. With his HiFi information, though, Marshall decided to override a portion of the tonnage they’d allocated for combat supplies and get those nets. Problem solved!</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Marshall recognized that the only way to understand a problem and solve it was by going to the source. He constantly either went to the front lines himself or sent people he trusted to find out what was really going on.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber43" id="SuperscriptNumber43" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[3]</a></p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Making Sure You Get HiFi Information</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Now that you understand the importance of HiFi information, here are the safeguards for ensuring you always get it.</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">safeguard: </span><i class="TG-ITAL">Run an experiment.</i> Try something out to see what kinds of results it yields.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_172" role="doc-pagebreak" title="172"/>An experiment is a low-risk way of gathering important information. For example, if you want to know whether people will pay for something, try to sell it before you even create it. That’s what my friends at Tuft &amp; Needle did. They were one of the first companies to ship foam mattresses directly to consumers’ homes. They shared an incredible story with me over coffee one day, about their early days. In order to validate their idea, they set up a landing page, bought some Facebook ads, and started taking orders. They didn’t even have a product or a company yet; they just wanted to see if people would buy foam mattresses from them. After a few days of receiving orders, they had all the proof they needed that people would buy their product. They refunded all the orders and officially started their company. While this example may be a bit unorthodox, there are many ways in which experimenting can help determine whether there’s sufficient demand for a product or service.</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">safeguard:</span> Evaluate the motivations and incentives of your sources. Remember that everyone sees things from a limited perspective.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Evaluating people’s motivations and incentives is especially important when you don’t have the ability to go and confirm something for yourself. If you absolutely must rely on someone else’s information and opinions, you have a responsibility to think about the lens through which they view the situation. Everyone has a limited perspective into the problem. Everyone has a blind spot. It’s your job as the decision-maker to weave their perspective together with others to get closer to reality.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A lot of what people consider information or fact is actually just opinion, or a few facts mixed with many opinions. For <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_173" role="doc-pagebreak" title="173"/>example, if you’re looking to sell your house, everyone who’s involved will have a different idea of what you’ll make on the sale: the bank, your real estate agent, the buyer’s agent, your friends, the home inspector, the internet, and the government. Each of them sees only part of the situation. Each has different motivations and incentives that shape how they see the world. To get a clearer picture of the concrete reality, consider how each person stands to benefit from the information they give you, and weave those perspectives together.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It helps to think of each person’s perspective as a lens onto the world. When you put their glasses on, you see what they see and have better insight into what they might be feeling. But those glasses have blind spots, often missing important information or confusing fact with opinion. By trying on all the glasses, you see what others miss.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you’re getting information from other people, you need to keep an open mind. That means withholding your own judgment as long as possible. People often undermine the information-gathering process by subjecting others to their judgments, beliefs, and perspective. The point isn’t to argue or disagree, however. Judging people and telling them they’re wrong only shuts them down and prevents a free flow of information. When you’re gathering information, your job is to see the world through other people’s eyes. You’re trying to understand their experience and how they processed it. You can learn valuable information even when you don’t agree with their view of the world. Just ask questions, keep your thoughts to yourself, and remain curious about other perspectives.</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">safeguard:</span> When you get information from other people, ask questions that yield detailed answers. Don’t ask people what they think; instead, ask them <i class="Box_ITAL">how</i> they think.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_174" role="doc-pagebreak" title="174"/>If you ask people what to do in a given situation, you might get the correct answer, but you haven’t learned anything. Say a local government task force needs to hire a software developer for a project, but they have no experience doing so and don’t know what to look for. Person A on the task force goes to a developer friend and asks, “Whom should I hire for this project?” Person B does the same but instead says, “I’m hiring a software developer, and I’d like to learn from your experiences. What skills matter and which ones can be learned on the job? Why? Where do I find the best people? How do I test these skills?” And so on.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Person B might not have a recommendation within the first conversation, but I’d give it ten-to-one odds that they find a better candidate in the end. The reason: Person B is asking about the principles that guide decision-making in this domain, not details about the specific case. They’re asking others about their earned knowledge and making it their own.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Our goal in decision-making is not just to gather information, but to gather information relevant to our decision. That requires more than building an inventory of data points; it requires understanding the why and how behind those data points—the principles that good decision-makers use in this area.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Getting at those principles requires asking the right kinds of questions. There are three I’d recommend:</p>
			<div role="list">
				<p class="x07-List-Unnumbered-First" role="listitem"><b>Question 1:</b> What are the variables you’d use to make this decision if you were in my shoes? How do those variables relate to one another?</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Unnumbered" role="listitem"><b>Question 2:</b> What do you know about this problem that I (or other people) don’t? What can you see based on your <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_175" role="doc-pagebreak" title="175"/>experience that someone without your experience can’t? What do you know that most people miss?</p>
				<p class="x07-List-Unnumbered-Last" role="listitem"><b>Question 3:</b> What would be your process for deciding if you were in my shoes? How would you go about doing it? (Or: How would you tell your mother/friend to go about doing it?)</p>
			</div>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Notice how different these questions are from the typical, “Here’s my problem. What should I do?” Remember: the questions you ask help to determine the quality of the information you get.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Getting Accurate Information from Experts</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">We’ve talked about the importance of getting high-fidelity information. The second principle for getting accurate information is getting high-expertise information:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the hiex principle:</span> Get high-expertise (HiEx) information, which comes both from people with a lot of knowledge and/or experience in a specific area, and from people with knowledge and experience in many areas.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">When someone close to the problem isn’t available to you, look for people who recently solved a similar problem. The word “recent” is an important nuance here. When you want specific advice from an expert, look for someone who recently solved the problem you’re trying to solve. Asking someone who solved your problem twenty years ago how they did it is not likely to offer specific and effective insights. You want a <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_176" role="doc-pagebreak" title="176"/>current expert—and no, I don’t mean the talking heads on TV. They’re rarely actual experts.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Experts can increase the accuracy of your information and decrease the time it takes to get it. Getting even one expert’s advice can cut through a lot of confusion and help you quickly formulate and/or eliminate options.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I learned the value of expert advice firsthand when I began coding at an intelligence agency. It was a very different experience from coding as I’d learned it. In school, it was possible to basically just Google things and piece them together. People had solved these problems long ago and the solutions hadn’t changed much. My job at the intelligence agency was much harder. Not only were we prohibited from Googling anything we were coding for security reasons, but even if we’d been allowed to, it wouldn’t have helped: we were trying to do things no one had ever done before.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A few months in, I got stuck on a problem. Really stuck! As a kid I’d always taken in a lot of different perspectives on a problem, but in the end, I always thought if I just put my head down and worked harder, I’d figure it out eventually. Days went by. Then weeks. I couldn’t understand what was happening. Finally, with my head down, I approached someone who had worked on a similar problem before and explained what I was stuck on.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Let me look at your code,” he said. In less than twenty minutes he diagnosed what was wrong: there was a subtle difference between what the documentation said would happen and what would actually happen in certain edge cases. Since most people wouldn’t run into those edge cases, the problem wasn’t documented anywhere. This person had faced and overcome the same problem, though, and it had taken him a long time to solve. He was happy to share his hard-earned <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_177" role="doc-pagebreak" title="177"/>knowledge. While I was a bit frustrated that I’d wasted weeks out of stubbornness, this exchange kick-started our relationship, and I learned a lot from him over the years.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Even one expert’s opinion can be more helpful than the thoughts and guesses of dozens or hundreds of amateurs. But how do you recruit one to work with you?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I’ve experienced expert advice from both sides: getting and giving. I reach out to experts all the time for insight, and I have thousands of people who reach out to me for advice. Let me share what I’ve learned on both recruiting experts and working with them.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Getting Experts on Your Side</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Many people don’t want to reach out to experts for help, either because they don’t think it’s an option, or because they’re afraid of being a nuisance. Sometimes, if we know the expert, we’re embarrassed. Maybe they’ll discover we know less than we actually do!</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you have any anxieties of this sort, the first thing to understand is that experts <i>love</i> sharing what they’ve learned when they know it’ll make a difference. Helping others achieve their goals is one of the things that make life and work meaningful. To put it in perspective, think of a time in your life when someone asked you for help on something you excel at, and you came through for them. How did it feel? For most of us, sharing expertise feels pretty good. We enjoy exercising an ability we have, and we also enjoy gaining recognition for having it.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Experts don’t treat all requests for help equally, though. Some requests really don’t feel good to receive. Usually these are requests of the tell-me-what-I-should-do type. Often these people haven’t done the work ahead of time, they just want <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_178" role="doc-pagebreak" title="178"/>you to decide for them. I get hundreds—if not thousands—of these requests a year. People want me to solve their problems for them. They send twenty pages of thoughts and say, “What should I do?”<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="85_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-043-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Remember: the goal isn’t to have someone tell you what to do; rather, it’s to learn how an expert thinks about the problem, which variables they consider relevant, and how those variables interact over time. If you present a problem, and an expert simply tells you what to do, they’re just giving you an abstraction. You might get the answer right, but you haven’t learned anything. And if things go wrong, which they inevitably will, you won’t have a clue as to why. You’re the line cook masquerading as the chef. If you ask them <i>how</i> they think about the problem, that’s when you start deepening your understanding.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">So let’s talk about how to approach an expert in a way that will set your request apart and get people excited to help you. Here are five tips:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First"><b>Show that you have skin in the game:</b> When you reach out to an expert, make them aware of the time, energy, and money you’ve already invested in the problem. Let them know you’ve done the work and that you’re stuck. When I see requests from someone who shows they’re invested in solving a problem, and who demonstrates they’ve done their research to craft a pitch around a very specific issue I can help with, I’m happy and eager to respond. Contrast that with emails that say, “Hey Shane, what do you think of this investment opportunity?” Which would you be more excited to answer?</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_179" role="doc-pagebreak" title="179"/><b>Get precise on your ask:</b> Be very clear what you’re looking for. Are you looking for them to review your plan and provide feedback? Are you looking for them to introduce you to people who can solve the problem? Whatever it is that you want, just be clear.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>Show respect for their time and energy:</b> Explicitly stating that the person you’re reaching out to is an expert whose time and energy you respect goes a long way to secure their goodwill. You should also demonstrate your respect for them, though. For instance, do not ask for fifteen minutes to pick their brain; instead, ask if they offer one-off consulting sessions and how much they charge for them. Experts are expensive and most of the time for good reason. If you’re paying $1,000 to $2,000 per hour for something, it forces you to get clear on what you want before you hop on the call. Paying for someone’s time not only compensates them for the value they bring to the table but forces you to make sure you’re not mumbling through the call and wasting their time and yours.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>Ask for their reasons and listen:</b> As mentioned previously, don’t just ask experts what they think, ask them how they think. Use them as a resource to train yourself how to evaluate things so that you can start embodying an expert way of operating. You don’t have to agree with what they’re saying, but remember: your goal is to learn from them how to think better, not to have them solve your problem for you.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last"><b>Follow up:</b> If you want to build a network and make this more than a transactional request, follow up to report on your progress no matter what the outcome is. Whether their advice helped you in this case or not, following up and keeping them updated on your progress primes them <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_180" role="doc-pagebreak" title="180"/>to help you in the future. When they see that you took their advice seriously, they’re going to want to help you again.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Of course, most experts aren’t able to respond to everyone who needs their help. It’s much easier if you develop a personal relationship with people before you need their help. That way the request isn’t purely transactional. It’s impossible to predict which fields you might someday need an expert in, but that’s one reason to cast a wide net socially and professionally. I just looked at my inbox last week and had fifty-three requests for “help” in one form or another. Two were from friends. I can’t reply to them all, so where do you think my time will go?</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A">Experts vs. Imitators</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Getting HiEx information requires that you get help from real experts. But there are many people who claim to be experts (or whom other people claim to be experts) who really aren’t.</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">safeguard:</span> <i class="TG-ITAL">Take time to distinguish real experts from imitators.</i> Not everyone who claims to be an expert is. Take the time to know the difference.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Think of all the money managers who borrow their talking points from Warren Buffett. They might sound like Buffett, but they don’t know how to invest the way Buffett does. They’re imitators. Charlie Munger once commented on this: “It’s very hard to tell the difference between a good money manager and someone who just has the patter down.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">But what if you’re not an expert yourself? How do you tell the difference between an expert and an imitator?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_181" role="doc-pagebreak" title="181"/>Experts are usually enthusiastic about their area of expertise. That’s why they’re good at it: they spend even their spare time mastering and refining their knowledge and skills, and it shows. Imitators are less concerned with being great and more concerned with looking great. That concern makes it easy for the ego to take over.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Here are some things to look for:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First"><b>Imitators can’t answer questions at a deeper level.</b> Specific knowledge is earned, not learned, so imitators don’t fully understand the ideas they’re talking about.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="86_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_3" id="footnote-042-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> Their knowledge is shallow. As a result, when you ask about details, or first principles or nonstandard cases, they don’t have good answers.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>Imitators can’t adapt their vocabulary.</b> They can explain things using only the vocabulary they were taught, which is often full of jargon. Because they don’t fully understand the ideas behind the vocabulary, they can’t adapt the way they talk about those ideas to express them more clearly to their audience.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><b>Imitators get frustrated when you say you don’t understand.</b> That frustration is a result of being overly concerned with the appearance of expertise—which they might not be able to maintain if they have to really get into the weeds with an explanation. Real experts have earned their expertise and are excited about trying to share what they know. They aren’t frustrated by your lack of understanding; they instead love your genuine curiosity about something they care about.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_182" role="doc-pagebreak" title="182"/><b>Experts can tell you all the ways they’ve failed.</b> They know and accept that some form of failure is often part of the learning process. Imitators, however, are less likely to own up to mistakes because they’re afraid it will tarnish the image they’re trying to project.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last"><b>Imitators don’t know the limits of their expertise.</b> Experts know what they know, and also know what they don’t know. They understand that their understanding has boundaries, and they’re able to tell you when they’re approaching the limits of their circle of competence. Imitators can’t. They can’t tell when they’re crossing the boundary into things they don’t understand.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">A final note on distinguishing experts from imitators: Many of us learn about a subject not by reading original research or listening to the expert for hours, but by reading something intended to be highly transmissible. Think again of the difference between reading an academic article and reading a newspaper article about it. While they know more than the layman, popularizers are not experts themselves. Instead, they are good at clearly and memorably communicating ideas. As a result, popularizers often get mistaken for experts. Keep that in mind when you’re in the market for an expert: the person with real expertise is often not the person who made the subject popular.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>