<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 4.6: Learn from Your Decisions, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-30" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-56"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_211" role="doc-pagebreak" title="211"/>CHAPTER 4.6</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-57">Learn from Your Decisions</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">If you’re a knowledge worker, you produce decisions.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber49" id="SuperscriptNumber49" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> That’s your job. The quality of your decisions eventually determines how far you go and how fast you get there. If you learn to make great decisions consistently, you’ll quickly move past the people whose decisions are merely good.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">No one is smart enough to make great decisions without learning first, though. Great decision-makers have mastered the ability to learn both from their mistakes and from their successes. It’s that ability that sets them apart. It enables them to repeat their successes and avoid repeating their failures. Unless you develop that ability yourself, you won’t improve your decision-making process over time.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A few years ago, a firm engaged me to help them improve the quality of their decisions. As a first step, we needed to find out where they were at. We started by trying to answer a single question: When their decision-makers expected a particular result, how often did that result happen for the reasons they thought it would?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">What we discovered shocked them: Their decision-makers <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_212" role="doc-pagebreak" title="212"/>were right only about 20 percent of the time. Most of the time when something that they anticipated actually happened, it didn’t happen for the reasons they thought it would. Their success, in other words, wasn’t due to insight or effort or skill. It was more luck than skill. This news was a blow to their egos. They thought that the successes they enjoyed resulted largely from their abilities, but the numbers told a different story. They were like people getting lucky at roulette and attributing their success to having a “system.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The story illustrates a psychological phenomenon we’ve discussed before: <i>self-serving bias</i>, the tendency to evaluate things in ways that enhance our self-image. When we succeed at something, we tend to attribute our success to our ability or effort. By contrast, when we fail at something, we tend to attribute our failure to external factors. Basically, heads I’m right. Tails, I’m not wrong. If you want to get better, you have to rewrite the faulty narratives.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Self-serving bias gets in the way of learning from your decisions and improving your process. Our ego default wants us to think that we’re smarter than we are and tells us that we work harder and know more than we actually do. The overconfidence that the ego demon inspires prevents us from examining our decisions with a critical eye. It keeps us from distinguishing skill from luck—what’s in our control from what isn’t. If you get trapped by the demon, you’ll never learn from your decisions and never get better at making them in the future.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The first principle to keep in mind when evaluating your decisions is this:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text-First"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the process principle:</span> When you evaluate a decision, focus on the process you used to make the decision and not the outcome.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_213" role="doc-pagebreak" title="213"/>Conventional wisdom suggests that good outcomes result from good people making good decisions and bad outcomes result from bad people making bad decisions. But it’s easy to find counterexamples. We’ve all made bad decisions, yet we’re not all bad people. And even good decisions can have unexpected and unfortunate outcomes thanks to the necessary uncertainty of life.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Coach Pete Carroll of the Seattle Seahawks understands the difference between good decisions and good outcomes as well as anyone. In February 2015, Carroll made a historic call in the final minutes of Super Bowl XLIX that was immediately criticized as a huge mistake. The Seahawks trailed 28–24, but they were on New England’s one-yard line and appeared certain to score and take the lead. Lined up in Seattle’s backfield was Marshawn Lynch, a 215-pound battering ram who was arguably the most dominant running back in the NFL at the time, and who’d already run for more than one hundred yards against the Patriots that day. Here’s a quick recap from a CBS Sports story that explains what happened next—and how Carroll’s decisions continue to be viewed today:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x06-Extract-1P">What transpired next will live in the annals of this league for as long as football games are played . . . a bizarre call by Carroll to throw on second down on a route in the crowded middle of the field will be second-guessed just as long—[and resulted] in Belichick and Tom Brady, the game’s MVP, making history with their fourth Super Bowl title together.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber50" id="SuperscriptNumber50" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">To the fans in the stands and nearly everyone watching the game, the right decision seemed obvious: just hand the ball to <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_214" role="doc-pagebreak" title="214"/>“Beast Mode,” as Lynch was known to many. But instead Carroll asked quarterback Russell Wilson to throw a pass, and the result was a disaster.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">It’s been years since this play. There’s been a tremendous amount of analysis of it. Why didn’t the coach make the easy choice that seemed so clear to everyone else? Based on good information, he was betting against his opponent’s weaknesses. After the game, an interviewer told Carroll, “Everyone is thinking this was the greatest mistake of all time.” Carroll’s response: it was the “worst result of a call ever.” His decision-making process was sound. It just didn’t work out. Sometimes that’s life.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The right call doesn’t always get the intended outcome. Sooner or later everyone who makes decisions in the real world learns this lesson. Poker players know it. They can play their hand perfectly and still lose. Nothing is guaranteed. All you can do is play the hand you’re dealt as best you can.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Carroll made his decision on the biggest stage in the world, and it had a terrible outcome. But his confidence in the decision was unwavering. Why? Because he knew the reasons why he had made the call. He knew his logic was sound. All he could do was learn from the outcome.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Many people assume that good decisions get good outcomes and bad ones don’t. But that’s not true. The quality of a single decision isn’t determined by the quality of the outcome. Here’s a thought experiment that will help illuminate this concept.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Imagine you engage in a very thoughtful and intentional decision-making process concerning your career. You have offers from a few different companies, one being a startup and another a Fortune 500. Based on where you are in your life, you decide to go with the Fortune 500 company. The pay is less up front, but it appears to be more stable.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Imagine your friend ends up working for the startup. You <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_215" role="doc-pagebreak" title="215"/>watch as he gets raises and more vacation time. Is your decision good or bad?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Now, imagine the startup quickly folds after only a year. Does this affect how you feel about your decision?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I hope you get where I’m going with this. You can’t control whether the startup takes off or not. Nor can you control in the moment how you feel about the startup offering higher pay. You can only control the process you use to make the decision. It’s that process that determines whether a decision is good or bad. The quality of the outcome is a separate issue.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Our tendency to equate the quality of our decision with the outcome is called <i>resulting</i>. Results are the most visible part of a decision. Because of that, we tend to use them as an indicator of the decision’s quality. If the results are what we wanted, we conclude that we made a good decision. If the results aren’t what we wanted, we tend to blame external factors. It’s not that our process was lacking; it’s that a crucial bit of information was. (As opposed to when an acquaintance gets bad results, at which point we assume it’s because they made a bad decision.)</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Obviously, we all want good outcomes, but as we’ve seen, good decisions can have bad outcomes, and bad decisions can have good ones. Evaluating decisions—ours or others’—based on the outcome (or how we feel about the outcome) fails to distinguish luck from skill and control. Because of that, engaging in resulting doesn’t help us get better. The result of resulting is instead stagnation.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you’ve ever ruminated over a bad outcome—asking yourself again and again, “How did I not see that coming?”—then you’ve experienced how challenging and ultimately useless it is to judge your decisions on the basis of how you feel about them in retrospect. You think, “If only I had talked to that person (whom I didn’t know at the time)!” or, “If I had <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_216" role="doc-pagebreak" title="216"/>only known that piece of information (which didn’t exist at the time), I would have made the right choice.” Even the best decision-makers get bad results from time to time, though.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Making a good decision is about the process, not the outcome. One bad outcome doesn’t make you a poor decision-maker any more than one good outcome makes you a genius. Unless you evaluate your reasoning at the time you made the decision, you’ll never know whether you were correct or just lucky. Your reasoning at that time remains mostly invisible unless you take steps to make it visible.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Rarely are you making decisions that have a 100 percent chance of success. And the kind of decision that has a 90 percent chance of success still has a bad outcome 10 percent of the time. What matters are results over time and ensuring that 10 percent of the time won’t kill you.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The following matrix provides a way of organizing your reflection on decisions and their outcomes.</p>
			<table class="Table-Style-1" id="table001">
				<colgroup>
					<col/>
					<col/>
					<col/>
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="Table-Style-1">
						<td class="Table-Style-1 TCH"/>
						<td class="Table-Style-1 TCH _idGenCellOverride-1">
							<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">Good outcome</p>
						</td>
						<td class="Table-Style-1 TCH _idGenCellOverride-1">
							<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">Bad outcome</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="Table-Style-1">
						<td class="Table-Style-1 Table-Body">
							<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">Good process</p>
						</td>
						<td class="Table-Style-1 Table-Body _idGenCellOverride-1">
							<p class="x08-Table-Body">You make a good decision and things go as planned. You deserve the success you enjoy—you earned it. Don’t let it go to your head. Stay on track and continue improving your process.</p>
						</td>
						<td class="Table-Style-1 Table-Body _idGenCellOverride-1">
							<p class="x08-Table-Body">You make a good decision, but things don’t go as planned. Bad luck! Don’t get discouraged. Trust the process. Learn from the experience and continue improving.</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="Table-Style-1">
						<td class="Table-Style-1 Table-Body">
							<p class="x08-Table-Column-Head">Bad process</p>
						</td>
						<td class="Table-Style-1 Table-Body _idGenCellOverride-1">
							<p class="x08-Table-Body">You make a bad decision but get lucky—like winning at roulette. Your success is undeserved. You did nothing to earn it. You just got lucky. Eventually you’re going to lose. Change while you can. Grow up and take command of your decision-making.</p>
						</td>
						<td class="Table-Style-1 Table-Body _idGenCellOverride-1">
							<p class="x08-Table-Body">You make a bad decision and are unlucky—like losing at roulette. You deserve failure. You earned it. Now learn from it. Let this be a wake-up call. Change while you can. Grow up and take command of your decision-making.</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_217" role="doc-pagebreak" title="217"/>A bad process can never produce a good decision. Sure, it might result in a good outcome, but that’s different from making a good decision. Outcomes are influenced in part by luck—both good and bad. Getting the right result for the wrong reasons isn’t a function of smarts or skills, but just blind luck.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Don’t get me wrong: it’s nice to get lucky (provided you know it’s luck). But luck isn’t a repeatable process that secures good results over the long term. Luck isn’t something you can learn, and it isn’t something you can get better at. Luck won’t give you an edge.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you start equating luck with will, you’re bound to make mistakes. You blind yourself to the risks you’re taking, and are bound to be badly surprised sooner or later. And when you start confusing luck with skill, you’re bound to squander opportunities to learn from your decisions, to improve your process, and to secure better results over the long term.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A second principle for evaluating your decisions in retrospect is this:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">the transparency principle:</span> Make your decision-making process as visible and open to scrutiny as possible.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Evaluating other people’s decisions is different from evaluating our own. We rarely see other people’s intentions, thinking, or process, so it’s hard judging their decisions by reference to anything other than their outcomes.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Evaluating our own decisions is different. We can have first-person insight into the process itself. We can examine our thinking, distinguish what was within our control from what wasn’t, and what we knew at the time from what we didn’t. We can then take what we’ve learned and invest it back into <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_218" role="doc-pagebreak" title="218"/>our process for next time. Of course, this is easier said than done!</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Many of us have a hard time learning from our decisions. One reason is that our thinking and decision-making process is often invisible to us. We inadvertently conceal from ourselves the steps we took to reach our final decision. Once that decision gets made, we don’t stop to reflect, but just move forward. And when we look back at our decision later, our ego manipulates our memories. We confuse what we know now with what we knew at the time we made the decision. And we see the outcomes and read them back into our intentions: “Oh, I meant to do that.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you don’t check your thinking at the time you made the decision—what you knew, what you thought was important, and how you reasoned about it—you’ll never know whether you made a good decision or just got lucky. If you want to learn from decisions, you need to make the invisible thought process as visible and open to scrutiny as possible. The following safeguard can help:</p>
			<aside>
				<p class="x10-Sidebar-Box-Text"><span class="_0-Sidebar-Box-Run-in">safeguard:</span> <i class="TG-ITAL">Keep a record of your thoughts at the time you make the decision.</i> Don’t rely on your memory after the fact. Trying to recall what you knew and thought at the time you made the decision is a fool’s game.</p>
			</aside>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Your ego works to distort your memories and convinces you of narratives that make you feel smarter or more knowledgeable than you really are. No one, we think, could make better decisions than the ones we’ve made ourselves. The only way to see clearly what you were thinking at the time you made the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_219" role="doc-pagebreak" title="219"/>decision is to keep a record of your thoughts at the time you were making the decision.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Writing down your thoughts offers several benefits. One benefit is that a written record provides information about your thought process at the time you made the decision. It makes the invisible visible. Later, when you reflect on your decision, having that record is helpful for counteracting the distorting effects of the ego default. You can truthfully answer questions like, “What did I know at the time I made the decision?” and, “Did the things I anticipated happening come about for the reasons I thought they would?”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A second benefit of recording your thoughts is that in the process of writing something, you often realize you don’t really understand it as well as you thought you did. It’s far better (and cheaper) to realize this before making your decision instead of after. If you do so in advance, you have an opportunity to get more information and a better grasp of the problem.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A third benefit to writing down your thoughts is that it allows other people to see your thinking, which is mostly invisible. And if they can see it, they can check it for errors and offer a different perspective that you might otherwise be blind to. If you can’t simply explain your thinking to other people (or yourself), it’s a sign that you don’t fully understand things and need to dig deeper and gather more information.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">A final benefit to writing down your thoughts is that it gives other people an opportunity to learn from your perspective. Many organizations would benefit from having a database that recorded how every person in the organization went about making decisions. Imagine the value of a searchable catalog of decisions in your organization. A system like this would allow people in different parts of the organization to check <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_220" role="doc-pagebreak" title="220"/>each other’s thinking. It would allow management to distinguish good decision-makers from mediocre ones, and it would provide people with models of decision-making—both of how to do it and of how not to. If you build a system like this, I want an equity cut!</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">All of these principles will help you get what you want but not help you want what matters.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>