<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 5.1: Dickens’s Hidden Lesson, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-32" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-60"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_225" role="doc-pagebreak" title="225"/>CHAPTER 5.1</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-61">Dickens’s Hidden Lesson</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Ebenezer Scrooge is one of Charles Dickens’s most memorable characters—an embodiment of greed and pursuing wealth at the expense of everything else. Scrooge is visited by three spirits who show him images of the past, the present, and a future that might be. In that future, Scrooge is dead, and the spirit allows him to eavesdrop on people’s conversations about him: they’re pleased Scrooge is gone, spiteful at his memory, unrepentant about stealing his things, and relieved that he’s no longer a presence—a curse—in their lives. Scrooge sees the long-term consequences of the decisions he’s made, regrets them, begs for a second chance, and gets an opportunity to change course.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="90_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_1" id="footnote-049-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Scrooge played by society’s scoreboard—the one that amplifies our biological instinct toward hierarchy and leads us to pursue money, status, and power at all costs. But his vision of the long-term future made him realize that none of these <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_226" role="doc-pagebreak" title="226"/>things really mattered, that a life lived according to someone else’s scoreboard is not a life worth living. He realized before it was too late that the key to a successful life is good company and meaningful relationships.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The quality of what you pursue determines the quality of your life. We think things like money, status, and power will make us happy, but they won’t. The moment we get them, we’re not satisfied. We just want more. The psychologists Philip Brickman and Donald T. Campbell coined a term for this phenomenon: <i>the hedonic treadmill</i>.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber52" id="SuperscriptNumber52" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> Who hasn’t taken a run on it?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Remember when you were sixteen, and thought that if you just had a car, you’d be happy for the rest of your life? Then you got a car. For a week or two you were euphoric. You showed the car off to all your friends and drove it everywhere. You thought life was amazing. Then reality set in. Cars come with problems. In addition to paying for insurance, gas, and maintenance, there’s also the problem of comparison. Back when you didn’t have a car, you used to compare yourself with other people who didn’t have cars. But now that you had a car, you began comparing yourself with other car owners. You noticed who had a better car, and were no longer happy with what had once made you ecstatic. You reverted to your old base-level discontent—the lowest gear on the hedonic treadmill. Comparison is the thief of joy.<a class="Footnote-Reference" epub:type="noteref" href="91_Footnote.xhtml#footnote_2" id="footnote-048-backlink" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Social comparison happens all the time. Sometimes it’s about possessions like houses or cars, but more often it’s about status.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_227" role="doc-pagebreak" title="227"/>When I first started working in a large organization, the inner voice in my head told me that if I just got a promotion, I’d be happy. So I worked hard and got the promotion. For a few weeks I felt on top of the world. Then, much like with the car example, reality set in. I had new problems and new responsibilities. Worse, I started comparing myself with a new group of people. It wasn’t long before I reverted to my previous level of discontent. Promotions continued to come, but none of them made me happier. They only left me wanting more.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">We tell ourselves that the next level is enough, but it never is. The next zero in your bank account won’t satisfy you any more than you are satisfied now. The next promotion won’t change who you are. The fancy car won’t make you happier. The bigger house doesn’t solve your problems. More social media followers won’t make you a better person.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Running on the hedonic treadmill only turns us into what I call “happy-when” people—those who think they’ll be happy <i>when</i> something happens. For example, we’ll be happy when we get the credit we deserve, or happy when we make a bit more money, or happy when we find that special someone. Happiness, however, isn’t conditional.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Happy-when people are never actually happy. The moment they get what they think they want—the “when” part of the conditional—having that thing becomes the new norm, and they automatically want more. It’s as if they’ve walked through a one-way door that closes behind them. Once the door closes, they lose perspective. They can’t see where they’ve been, only where they are.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The way things are now is the way we expect them to be, and we start taking the good things around us for granted. Once that happens, nothing will make us happy. And while we’re busy running on the treadmill chasing after all the things <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_228" role="doc-pagebreak" title="228"/>that won’t make us happy, we’re not pursuing the things that really matter.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Scrooge is a fictional example of achieving “success” at the cost of things that really matter. But there are many real examples. I once worked with someone who came to his position running a large company in a way that should be familiar to most of us: with sharp elbows in a hypercompetitive culture. The people he ran into on the way to becoming CEO were only means to help him achieve his ends: he wanted to be wealthy, he wanted to be respected, he wanted people to know his name. He wanted status and recognition.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">After meetings, where things were tense and his temper got the better of him, he would often tell me, “Shane, you’ve got to decide if you’re a lion or a sheep. I’m a lion,” he’d say, and quote Tywin Lannister from <i>Game of Thrones</i>: “A lion doesn’t concern himself with the opinions of a sheep.” He wanted everyone to know he was at the top of the food chain.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">An avid golfer, he often enjoyed several games a week. He never had trouble filling a round; in fact, he often complained that he had too many friends and couldn’t play with them all. Shortly after retiring, he looked forward to finally having the time to enjoy his favorite pastime with his many friends. As it turned out, though, most of his “friends” and colleagues were busy, unavailable, or stopped returning his calls. He could hardly fill a single round a month.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">His relationships had appeared real and meaningful, but in reality, no one wanted anything to do with him. His transactional way of handling other people made them feel used, manipulated, and frustrated. He yelled, cursed, and threw temper tantrums. They worked with him because they had to, not because they wanted to. Golfing was fun for him, but it was work for them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_229" role="doc-pagebreak" title="229"/>A while after stepping away, he concluded that he’d been trying to win the wrong game. He’d aimed at achieving wealth, power, and prominence—the goals so many people tell us to pursue. He’d prioritized these goals above all others and pursued them relentlessly. In the end, he got what he thought he wanted. But it left him feeling empty. He achieved what he’d wanted at the expense of having meaningful relationships—which, he came to realize, was something that really mattered. Unlike Scrooge, he got no second chance.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">How many of us—at whatever stages of our careers—are on the same trajectory? We value wealth and status more than happiness—the external more than the internal—and we give little thought to how we pursue them. In the process, we end up chasing praise and recognition from people who don’t matter at the expense of people who do.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I’ve known many successful people whose lives I wouldn’t want to have. They had intelligence, they had drive, they had opportunity, and the wherewithal to use them all. But they were missing something else. They knew how to get what they wanted, but the things they wanted weren’t worth wanting. In fact, the things they wanted ended up disfiguring their lives. They were missing what Scrooge gains at the happy turning point of his story—that ingredient that makes the difference between the unhappy masses and the happy few.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The ancient Greeks had a word for this ingredient: <i>phronesis</i>—the wisdom of knowing how to order your life to achieve the best results.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you look back to the decisions you made as a teenager, they probably seem pretty silly now. The time you stole (I mean <i>borrowed</i>) the car from your parents, the time you got too drunk at a party and maybe did some stuff you shouldn’t have (thankfully there were no camera phones back then), the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_230" role="doc-pagebreak" title="230"/>time you got into a fight with a friend over a potential mate. These decisions didn’t seem stupid at the time so why do they appear so now? Because you have perspective now that was inaccessible to you back then. What seemed like the most important thing in the world at the time—the very thing that consumed you—seems silly now in hindsight.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Wisdom requires all the things we’ve talked about: the ability to keep the defaults in check, to create space for reason and reflection, to use the principles and safeguards that make for effective decisions. But being wise requires more. It’s more than knowing how to get what you want. It’s also knowing which things are worth wanting—which things really matter. It’s as much about saying no as saying yes. We can’t copy the life decisions of other people and expect better results. If we want to live the best life we can, we need a different approach.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Knowing what to want is the most important thing. Deep down, you already know what to do, you just need to follow your own advice. Sometimes, it’s the advice we give other people that we most need to follow ourselves.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>