<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 5.2: The Happiness Experts, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-33" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-62"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_231" role="doc-pagebreak" title="231"/>CHAPTER 5.2</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-63">The Happiness Experts</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">I once interviewed the gerontologist Karl Pillemer, author of <i>30 Lessons for Living: Tried and True Advice from the Wisest Americans</i>.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber53" id="SuperscriptNumber53" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> He’d seen numerous studies showing that people in their seventies, eighties, and beyond were happier than younger people. He was intrigued: “I kept meeting older people—many of whom had lost loved ones, been through tremendous difficulties, and had serious health problems—but who nevertheless were happy, fulfilled, and deeply enjoying life. I found myself asking: ‘What’s that all about?’ ”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">One day it hit him: Maybe older people just knew things about living a happy life that younger people didn’t. Maybe they could see things we couldn’t see. If any population demographic could lay claim to expertise in living a happy life, it would be seniors. Yet to Pillemer’s surprise, no one seemed to have done a study on what practical advice older people had for the younger generation. That set Pillemer off on a seven-year quest to discover “the practical wisdom of older people.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Their number one lesson: life is short! “The older the respondent,” Pillemer said, “the more likely [they were] to say <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_232" role="doc-pagebreak" title="232"/>that life passes by in what seems like an instant.” When elders tell younger people that life is short, they’re not being macabre or pessimistic. They’re instead trying to offer a perspective that they hope will inspire better decisions—ones that prioritize the things that really matter. “I wish I’d learned this in my 30s instead of in my 60s,” one man told Pillemer, “I would have had so much more time to enjoy life.” If only we could turn our future hindsight into our current foresight.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Time is the ultimate currency of life. The implications of managing the short time we have on earth are like those of managing any scarce resource: you have to use it wisely—in a way that prioritizes what’s most important.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">What were the most important things according to the people Pillemer interviewed? They included the following:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">Say things now to people you care about—whether it’s expressing gratitude, asking forgiveness, or getting information.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Spend the maximum amount of time with your children.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Savor daily pleasures instead of waiting for “big-ticket items” to make you happy.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">Work in a job you love.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">Choose your mate carefully; don’t just rush in.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">The list of things they said weren’t important was equally revealing:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-First">None said that to be happy you should work as hard as you can to get money.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted">None said it was important to be as wealthy as the people around you.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_233" role="doc-pagebreak" title="233"/>None said you should choose your career based on its earning potential.</p>
				</li>
				<li class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">
					<p class="x07-List-Bulleted-Last">None said they regretted not getting even with someone who slighted them.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">And the biggest regret people had? Worrying about things that never happened: “Worrying wastes your life,” one respondent said.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">These are important insights from the people that Pillemer describes as “the most credible experts we have on how to live happy and fulfilled lives during hard times.” But there’s another insight that’s even more important.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Pillemer asked one of his interviewees for help understanding the source of her happiness. She thought about it and answered, “In my 89 years, I’ve learned that happiness is a choice—not a condition.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">According to Pillemer, “The elders make the key distinction between events that happen to us, on the one hand, and our internal attitude toward happiness, on the other. Happy in spite of. Happiness is not a passive condition dependent on external events, nor is it the result of our personalities—just being born a happy person. Instead, happiness requires a conscious shift in outlook, in which one chooses—daily—optimism over pessimism, hope over despair.”</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The more we age, the more we come to see things the way Marcus Aurelius did: “When you are distressed by an external thing, it’s not the thing itself that troubles you, but only your judgment of it. And you can wipe this out at a moment’s notice.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber54" id="SuperscriptNumber54" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">This insight has dramatic implications. It places happiness on a continuum with other decisions we’ve talked about. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_234" role="doc-pagebreak" title="234"/>Imagine that: all the decisions that make up your career and personal life ultimately add up to an overall decision to be happy. You can decide what to pursue in life. You can decide what’s a priority for you. You can decide to channel your time, energy, and other resources toward things that really matter in the end.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If there were a way of viewing things from the perspective of our elders, we might have the insight to live better lives—to see in the way the experts do what really matters and what doesn’t. In fact, there’s an ancient technique for doing precisely this: start thinking about the shortness of life, and it will help you see what really matters.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">“Let us prepare our minds as if we had come to the very end of life,” Seneca said. If you want a better life, start thinking about death.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>