<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 5.4: Life Lessons from Death, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-35" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-66"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_240" role="doc-pagebreak" title="240"/>CHAPTER 5.4</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-67">Life Lessons from Death</h2>
			<blockquote>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph">It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it.</p>
				<p class="x03-Chapter-Epigraph-Source">—SENECA, <i class="_2-PO-Epi-Source-Ital">On the Shortness of Life</i>, Chapter 1</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Evaluating your life through the lens of your death is raw, powerful, and perhaps a bit scary. What matters most becomes clear. We become aware of the gap between who we are and who we want to be. We see where we are and where we want to go. Without that clarity, we lack wisdom and waste the present on things that don’t matter.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When I do this thought experiment, I gain a more objective perspective on my life. It makes me want to become a better version of myself.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Initially, what comes to mind are the things I want to do for others. Was I there when the people I love needed me? Did I make time for the people closest to me? Am I the partner that I want to be—loving, supportive, and true to my hopelessly <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_241" role="doc-pagebreak" title="241"/>romantic and cheesy side? Was I a good father? Did I travel and see the world? Could people count on me? Was I an active participant in the community? Did I help people accomplish their dreams? Did I leave the world a better place?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you know the destination, how to get there becomes clearer. As Aristotle says, “Knowledge of the best good carries great weight for knowing the best way to live: if we know it, then like archers who have a target to aim at, we are more likely to hit the right mark.”<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber60" id="SuperscriptNumber60" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">At some point my kids figured out that it was easier to solve a maze backward than forward, especially if the maze is harder or more complicated than usual. Something about starting with the end in mind, they realized, makes it easier to decide which path to take. Life in general works similarly.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If this were your final year of life, would you be living the same way you are today? I posed this question to a friend of mine over lunch one day, and he quickly retorted, “I’d spend my savings, run up my credit cards, and start a drug habit.” (He was joking about the drugs. I hope.)</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you think of your ninety-year-old self, it becomes clear that running up your credit card or doing drugs isn’t going to make you happier. For many people, considering death makes us less likely to want to blow money.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber61" id="SuperscriptNumber61" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[2]</a> (The downside of drugs is, I trust, self-explanatory.) And I’m sure you wouldn’t spend your final year checking email, putting other people down, or trying to show your uncle just how right you were that one Thanksgiving when you argued about politics.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you imagine your older self and what you want your life to look like in hindsight, you stop thinking about the small things that encourage you to be reactive instead of proactive. You start to see what actually matters to you. The small things look small, and the things that really matter start to look big. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_242" role="doc-pagebreak" title="242"/>From this perspective, it’s easier to navigate toward the future you really want. You can see the gap between where you are and where you want to be, and change course if necessary.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">For instance, after doing this thought experiment, I’ve started eating better, sleeping more, and exercising regularly. Why? Because in order to live to ninety and do all the things I aspire to, I need to be healthy. Likewise, after doing this thought experiment, it’s clear that I want to be a more present father. Hence, I’ve cut back on my phone use around the kids and created routines that nudge connecting with them: every day when they come home, we sit on the couch and talk about the school day. No doubt these are small changes, but they have a big impact on me and the people that matter.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">As I stick with the thought experiment, my mind wanders to what people will say about me after I’m gone, when there is no opportunity for me to respond. What will people <i>really</i> say?</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Whatever it is, my opportunity to change it is right now—while I still have time.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber62" id="SuperscriptNumber62" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[3]</a> Not all of what people say will be kind, so that means I have some relationships to repair. I can do that now, though. I can be the bigger person. Why? Because it matters to me.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Wisdom is turning your future hindsight into your current foresight. What seems to matter in the moment rarely matters in life, yet what matters in life always matters in the moment.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber63" id="SuperscriptNumber63" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[4]</a></p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">What seems like winning in the moment is often just a shallow victory. It seems important at the time, but unimportant when you view it from the perspective of life as a whole. When we’re not going in the direction in which we want to end up, we end up regretting where we end up. And avoiding regret is a key component to life satisfaction.</p>
			<h3 class="x05-Head-A"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_243" role="doc-pagebreak" title="243"/>Good Judgment and the Good Life</h3>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text-FL">Good judgment is, above all else, about being effective at achieving what matters—not what matters in the moment, but what matters in life. It’s not about figuring out how to succeed today but understanding why and how we need to structure our lives with the end in mind. Good judgment is, above all else, having wisdom.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Wise people know what’s really valuable. They know better than anyone that there’s only one life—no rough draft, no do-over, no restart from an earlier save point. They don’t squander their time chasing frivolous ambitions on a hedonic treadmill. They know what real wealth consists of, and they devote themselves to securing it—no matter what the crowd might think or say.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Sometimes the cost of being wise is that other people treat you like a fool. And no wonder: fools can’t see what wise people do. Wise people see life in all its breadth: work, health, family, friends, faith, and community. They don’t fixate on one part to the exclusion of others. They instead know how to harmonize life’s various parts, and pursue each in proportion to the whole. They know that achieving harmony in that way is what makes life meaningful, admirable, and beautiful.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">If you want to develop good judgment, start by asking two questions: “What do I want in life? And is what I want actually worth wanting?” Until you’ve answered the second question, all the decision-making advice in the world isn’t going to do you much good. There’s little profit in knowing how to get the things you want if those things won’t make you happy. It doesn’t matter how successful you become at acquiring power, fame, or money if at the end of it all you want a <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_244" role="doc-pagebreak" title="244"/>do-over.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>