<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Conclusion: The Value of Clear Thinking, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-36" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-68"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_245" role="doc-pagebreak" title="245"/>CONCLUSION</h2>
			<h2 class="x03-Chapter-Title" id="_idParaDest-69">The Value of Clear Thinking</h2>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">Good judgment is expensive, but poor judgment will cost you a fortune.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The overarching message of this book is that there are invisible instincts that conspire against good judgment. Your defaults encourage you to react without reasoning—to live unconsciously rather than deliberately.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">When you revert to defaults, you engage in a game you can’t win. When you live a life run on autopilot, you get bad results. You make things worse. You say things that can’t be unsaid and do things that can’t be undone. You might accomplish your immediate goal, but you fail to realize that you’ve made it harder to achieve your ultimate goals. All of this happens without consciously being aware you are exercising judgment in the first place.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Most books about thinking focus only on being more rational. They miss the fundamental problem: Most errors in judgment happen when we don’t know we’re supposed to be exercising judgment. They happen because our subconscious is driving our behaviors and cutting us out of the process of <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_246" role="doc-pagebreak" title="246"/>determining what we should do. You don’t consciously choose to argue with your partner, but you find yourself saying hurtful things that can’t be unsaid. You don’t consciously seek money and status at the expense of your family, but you find yourself spending less and less time with the people who matter most in your life. You don’t consciously seek to defend your ideas, but you find yourself holding grudges against anyone who criticizes you.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The key to getting what you want out of life is to identify how the world works and to align yourself with it. Often people think the world should work differently than it does, and when they don’t get the outcomes they want, they try to wiggle out of responsibility by blaming other people or their circumstances.<a class="Endnote-Reference" href="40_Notes.xhtml#EndnoteNumber64" id="SuperscriptNumber64" role="doc-noteref" title="note">[1]</a> Avoiding responsibility is a recipe for misery, and the opposite of what it takes to cultivate good judgment.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Improving your judgment, it turns out, is less about accumulating tools to enhance your rationality and more about implementing safeguards that make the desired path the path of least resistance. It’s about designing systems when you’re at your best that work for you when you’re at your worst. Those systems don’t eliminate the defaults, but they do help you recognize when they are running the show.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Managing your defaults requires more than willpower. Defaults operate at our subconscious level, so overriding them requires harnessing equally powerful forces that pull your subconscious in the right direction: habits, rules, and environment. Overriding your defaults requires implementing safeguards that render the invisible visible and that prevent you from acting too soon. And it requires cultivating habits of mind—accountability, knowledge, discipline, and confidence—that put you on the right track and keep you there.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">The small improvements you make in judgment won’t be <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_247" role="doc-pagebreak" title="247"/>felt until they are too large to ignore. Gradually, as the improvements accumulate, you will notice that less of your time is spent fixing problems that shouldn’t exist in the first place. You’ll notice the various parts of your life blending harmoniously together, and you’ll notice that you experience less stress and anxiety and more joy.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Good judgment can’t be taught, but it can be <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_248" role="doc-pagebreak" title="248"/>learned.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>