<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Acknowledgments, Clear Thinking</title>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593086124_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5dc26c30-d197-4148-9aa8-1f60ca2c259c" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780593086124_EPUB-37" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div role="doc-acknowledgments">
			<h1 class="x13-BM-Ack-Head" id="_idParaDest-70"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_249" role="doc-pagebreak" title="249"/>Acknowledgments</h1>
			<p class="x03-CO-Body-Text">This book is a series of things that I have learned from others. Not only are the insights from others, but the work itself wouldn’t be here without others.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I want to thank my incredible children, William and Mackenzie. Not only have they shown me the world through their endlessly curious eyes, but they’ve given me fertile ground to test these ideas in the real world.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I’m grateful to my parents for their support, encouragement, and never-ending belief in me. Mom and Dad, I love you. There were some challenging times, but we’ll save that for another book. I got through it because of you. I also want to thank my high school English teacher Mr. Duncan, and high school bestie Scott Corkery, whose friendship (and family) forever changed my trajectory.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">As for the content of the book, there are so many people to thank that I’m sure I will forget a few. Once you put a book out into the world, you can’t change it, so you can find an updated list of thanks and appreciation at fs.blog.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I am fortunate to have learned from many people, but <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_250" role="doc-pagebreak" title="250"/>perhaps no one has taught me more than Peter D. Kaufman. Many of the lessons and insights in this book come from our many conversations over the years. I am grateful for our friendship.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Charlie Munger, Warren Buffett, Andrew Wilkinson, Chris Sparling, James Clear, Ryan Holiday, Nir Eyal, Steve Kamb, Michael Kaumeyer, Morgan Housel, Michael Mauboussin, Alex Duncan, Kat Cole, Naval Ravikant, Jim Collins, Tobi Lütke, Annie Duke, Diana Chapman, and Randall Stutman have influenced my thoughts in meaningful ways. In fact, many of their thoughts have so firmly embedded themselves in me that they are indistinguishable from my own. To the extent you enjoy this book, you should look all of them up and follow them.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Writing a book is a marathon and not a sprint, and many people helped along the way. Thank you to Ariel Ratner, who got me started, and to William Jaworski, Ellen Fishbein, and Samuel Nightengale of Writing.coach. They spent so much time editing and transforming my sentences that some sections of the book are as much theirs as mine. Richelle DeVoe and the team at Pen Name helped organize and make real some of the threads in my head. We can all thank Joe Berkowitz for reducing the word count and getting rid of things that didn’t need to be there.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">I also want to thank early readers who provided insight and so much more: Trudy Boyle, Maureen Cunningham, Dr. Setareh Ziai, Rob Fraser, Zach Smith, Whitney Trujillo, Emily Segal, and Simon Eskildsen. And a big thanks to the team at FS for keeping everything going while I was working on this: Vicky Cosenzo, Rhiannon Beaubien, Dalton Mabery, Deb McGee, Laurie Lachance, and Alex Gheorghe.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">Thanks to the team at Portfolio and Penguin Random <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_251" role="doc-pagebreak" title="251"/>House who turned this into an actual thing. To the Michael Jordan of editing, Niki Papadopoulos, whose insight and patience as I missed every deadline was appreciated. And to my agent Rafe Sagalyn, who was instrumental in guiding me through the publishing process.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text">And . . . thank you. You’ve trusted me with something far more valuable than the price of this book; you’ve trusted me with your time. I hope your investment in the time to read this pays dividends for years to come.</p>
			<p class="x04-Body-Text"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_252" role="doc-pagebreak" title="252"/>Cheers.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>