<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Website Design and Development with HTML5 and CSS3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section class="foreword" epub:type="foreword" role="doc-foreword">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xi" id="page_xi"></span>
<header>
<h1><span class="codeColorBlue">Foreword</span></h1>
</header>
<p>When Hassen Ben Rebah contacted me to write the foreword to his new book on HTML5 and CSS3 in collaboration with his colleagues, I was surprised by the invitation. One can only accept such an honor. Hassen Ben Rebah is a university teacher recognized for his know-how and knowledge of web programming (HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, etc.). He is excellent at passing his knowledge on to others. Two people have embarked on this new adventure with him: Antoine, a lead developer at Amazon, and Hafedh, a fellow teacher. The collaboration of these three authors promises to culminate in a fine work.</p>
<p>It is also worth remembering that 2020 is the 10th year that HTML5 has been creating a stir in the world for web designers! What better time to produce this new opus on HTML5? Of course, the first official version was released in 2014, but we had all been eagerly awaiting it since 2010. The HTML5 specifications are the longest of all the major versions of HTML to be written since it came into existence. This just shows the power of this version!</p>
<p>Today, we cannot talk about HTML5 without associating it with CSS3. This version of stylesheets has existed for 20 years, yet it has only been effectively integrated into modern navigators for a quarter of its life. Modernity, indeed, as CSS3 offers a veritable arsenal of selectors, use of web fonts, gradients, shadows and animations without a single line of JavaScript! The only limit to your creativity will be your own imagination.</p>
<p>Who better than two teachers and a lead developer to explain the magic of these two computer languages? Hassen, Antoine and Hafedh will accompany you throughout this book in your understanding and mastery of the indissociable pairing that is HTML5 and CSS3. In it you will find a whole repository for each <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xii" id="page_xii"></span>language, as well as concrete examples of their use. This book will become your new bedside reading.</p>
<p class="right">Teddy PAYET</p>
<p class="right">Lead Developer CTO Freelance</p>
<p class="right">July 2021</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>