<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Website Design and Development with HTML5 and CSS3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section class="preface" epub:type="preface" role="doc-preface">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xiii" id="page_xiii"></span>
<header>
<h1><span class="codeColorBlue">Preface</span></h1>
</header>
<h2><span class="codeColorBlue">Book objectives and structure</span></h2>
<p>This book discusses website programming through the study of the HTML5 and CSS3 web development languages. The first is used for the structuring and content of a site, and the second for graphic design and formatting.</p>
<p>The book begins by focusing on studying the HTML5 and CSS3 languages; it then presents the procedure for creating a website (choice of architecture, hosting, updating, referencing, etc.) as well as the key rules to be applied in order to ensure the success of the project, in particular by better meeting user needs.</p>
<p>In addition, there are examples illustrating the majority of the chapters in the book. This work also features corrected practical exercises, structured according to an expanding logic: from designing a simple HTML5 page to creating a professional website. These exercises serve to teach readers the basic concepts they need to master if they wish to create a website: page structure, element positioning, insertion of forms, tables, images, videos, audios, etc.</p>
<p>All the source codes of the practical exercises presented in this book are available on GitHub.</p>
<h2><span class="codeColorBlue">Target readership</span></h2>
<p>This book is intended for both students and academics starting out in the field of web page development and creation, and also for website designers and web designers wishing to develop their creations.</p>
<p class="right">July 2021</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>