<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Finance for IT Decision Makers, 3rd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="FinanceforIT.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="copyrightPage" id="copyrightPage">
<p class="copyrightText1">© 2012 Michael Blackstaff</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">Second edition published by The British Computer Society 2006</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">First edition published by Springer Verlag 1999</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">All rights reserved. Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as permitted by the Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form or by any means, except with the prior permission in writing of the publisher, or in the case of reprographic reproduction, in accordance with the terms of the licences issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency. Enquiries for permission to reproduce material outside those terms should be directed to the publisher.</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">All trade marks, registered names etc. acknowledged in this publication are the property of their respective owners. BCS and the BCS logo are the registered trade marks of the British Computer Society charity number 292786 (BCS).</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">Published by BCS Learning &amp; Development Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of BCS The Chartered Institute for IT, First Floor, Block D, North Star House, North Star Avenue, Swindon, SN2 1FA, UK.</p>
<p class="copyrightText"><a href="http://www.bcs.org">www.bcs.org</a></p>
<p class="copyrightText1">ISBN: 978-1-780171-22-7</p>
<p class="copyrightText">PDF ISBN: 978-1-780171-23-4</p>
<p class="copyrightText">ePUB ISBN: 978-1-780171-24-1</p>
<p class="copyrightText">Kindle ISBN: 978-1-780171-25-8</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">British Cataloguing in Publication Data.</p>
<p class="copyrightText">A CIP catalogue record for this book is available at the British Library.</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">Disclaimer:</p>
<p class="copyrightText">The views expressed in this book are of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Institute or BCS Learning &amp; Development Ltd except where explicitly stated as such. Although every care has been taken by the authors and BCS Learning &amp; Development Ltd in the preparation of the publication, no warranty is given by the authors or BCS Learning &amp; Development Ltd as publisher as to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained within it and neither the authors nor BCS Learning &amp; Development Ltd shall be responsible or liable for any loss or damage whatsoever arising by virtue of such information or any instructions or advice contained within this publication or by any of the aforementioned.</p>
<p class="copyrightText1">Typeset by Lapiz Digital services, Chennai, India.</p>
<p class="copyrightText">Printed at CPI Antony Rowe Ltd, Chippenham, UK.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>