<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Finance for IT Decision Makers, 3rd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="FinanceforIT.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="frontMatterPage" id="author">
<p class="chapterTitle">AUTHORS</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><span class="bold">Michael Blackstaff FCA MBCS CITP</span><span class="no-style-override-7"> has over 40 years’ finance, marketing and training experience of the information technology (IT) industry and its customers. For nine years he was a financial marketing specialist with IBM United Kingdom Ltd, developing business cases for complex projects, selling leasing, teaching salespeople the finance of selling and advising customers on financing and accounting for IT. He teaches courses on finance and accounting for non-financial managers and salespeople in IT and other industries. </span></p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Website: <a href="http://www.blackstaff-financial-training.co.uk">www.blackstaff-financial-training.co.uk</a></p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1"><span class="bold">Hugh Pike BSc MBA </span>(co-author of <a href="22_FinanceforIT_chapter10.xhtml">Chapter 10</a>) is a freelance trainer and consultant. His specialist area is in high-value commercial negotiations, with particular emphasis on IT outsourcing deals.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Relevant experience includes over 20 years in business and finance functions within IBM, of which more than ten years were as a commercial negotiator in outsourcing services, including two years at European Management level.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Since leaving IBM, Hugh has worked with a variety of clients in the provision of training and consulting services related to negotiations and commercial contracting. His particular skills combine an unusual blend of negotiating acumen with expertise in contractual and para-legal matters to give a valuable perspective on commercial negotiations.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Hugh can be contacted at: hugh_pike@yahoo.co.uk</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>