<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Finance for IT Decision Makers, 3rd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="FinanceforIT.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="frontMatterPage" id="foreword">
<p class="chapterTitle">FOREWORD</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Michael Blackstaff has produced a practical, readable and enjoyable guide to the financial factors that IT decision makers should consider when making an investment and how these relate to business operations. For many years this has been a contentious area, particularly in the IT sector, where, on the one hand, technological considerations have sometimes been allowed to override business sense; while, on the other hand, insufficient knowledge of the black arts of financing have sometimes been known to lead to poor IT decisions.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Michael sets out a logical, ordered, way of approaching the subject, which, when used by IT and accounting professionals, will provide a common base of understanding. The book provides a sound basis for the achievement of better business decision-making about investments in IT.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">I worked with Michael in IBM United Kingdom Limited for over 10 years. We were colleagues in IBM’s Financial Marketing Department (of which I was Manager) where, in collaboration with clients seeking both to justify IT investments and manage their cash flow, we used many of the techniques described in this book. Later, as Manager of IBM’s Business School, I collaborated with Michael in providing financial training for IBM’s staff and clients. This book is the fruit of that practical experience.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Geoff Berridge</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Director</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Knowledge Based Solutions Limited</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">London</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">July 2012</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent"><a href="http://www.knowledgebasedsolutions.co.uk">www.knowledgebasedsolutions.co.uk</a></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>