<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Finance for IT Decision Makers, 3rd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="FinanceforIT.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="frontMatterPage" id="ack">
<p class="chapterTitle">ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1"><span class="no-style-override-7">I should like to thank the following people for their contributions to this book:</span></p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-first">Mr Hugh Pike BSc MBA, the co-author of <a href="22_FinanceforIT_chapter10.xhtml">Chapter 10:</a> Outsourcing: financial aspects;</li>
<li class="bullet-middle">Mr Richard Barfield BSc FCA CMC, Director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (<a href="http://www.pwc.com/uk">www.pwc.com/uk</a>) in London, for his technical help regarding those sections of the book that contain references to ‘shareholder value added’ (SVA). His suggestions of simple ways of describing this subject for the non-specialist reader, and of how SVA can be related to more well-established ways of evaluating investments in information technology (IT), have, I believe, added significantly to the usefulness of the book. Richard’s comments were made in a personal capacity and do not necessarily represent the views of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.</li>
<li class="bullet-last bullet-last-override"><span class="no-style-override-7">Mr David Brookes FCA, Director – Audit and Advisory at RSM Tenon (<a href="http://www.rsmtenon.com">www.rsmtenon.com</a>) in Southampton, England, for his technical help on some aspects of International Financial Reporting Standards. David’s comments were made in a personal capacity and do not necessarily represent the views of RSM Tenon.</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">I should also like to thank Tesco plc, which has kindly granted permission for extracts from their published accounts to be reproduced in the book and used for illustrative purposes.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Extracts from International Accounting Standard No. 17 (IAS 17) are reproduced by kind permission of the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">The diagram in <a href="23_FinanceforIT_chapter11.xhtml#img195">Figure 11.1</a> is reproduced, slightly modified, from Lock, D. (2007) <span class="italic">Project Management</span>, 9th edition, Gower Publishing, Farnham, by kind permission of the publishers.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">I should like also to thank the following:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Matthew Flynn, Commissioning Editor of the Books Programme of BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT; the BCS publication team and Geoff Berridge.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Michael Blackstaff</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>