<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Finance for IT Decision Makers, 3rd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="FinanceforIT.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="backMatterPage" id="app2">
<p class="chapterTitle">A2 FINANCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF DIFFERENT BUSINESSES</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">There are three main categories of business:</p>
<div class="ul">
<ul>
<li><span class="bold">Manufacturing businesses –</span> that sell products that have been converted into a different form from those that they bought.</li>
<li><span class="bold">Buying and selling businesses – </span>whether retail or wholesale, that sell products that are, generally, unchanged from those that they bought.</li>
<li class="bullet-last"><span class="bold">Service businesses –</span> that generally do not sell tangible products at all.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">The following brief notes summarise their main financial characteristics.</p>
<p class="sectionTitle" id="app2-1">MANUFACTURING BUSINESSES</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Manufacturing businesses usually have the following financial characteristics:</p>
<div class="ul">
<ul>
<li>They have a requirement for non-current assets, such as buildings, plant and machinery.</li>
<li>They carry substantial inventories, of three main kinds: raw materials or bought-in parts, work in progress and finished goods. </li>
<li>Most or all of what they sell is sold on credit, so they usually carry substantial receivables.</li>
<li>They have a long ‘cash cycle’. Cash has to be spent over possibly long design and production periods before there are products available to sell. Then, because products are usually sold on credit, there is a further delay before cash is finally received.</li>
<li class="bullet-last">Their current assets would usually exceed their current liabilities, subject to the relative amounts of cash and short-term borrowings. This is because their often high levels of inventories and receivables would usually exceed the amounts owed to suppliers for things bought on credit.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p class="sectionTitle" id="app2-2">BUYING AND SELLING BUSINESSES</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Buying and selling businesses include wholesalers, department stores, supermarkets and small shops. These remarks concentrate on supermarkets, which usually have the following financial characteristics:</p>
<div class="ul">
<ul>
<li>They have a requirement for non-current assets, such as buildings, fixtures and delivery vehicles.</li>
<li>They carry substantial inventories of goods for resale, both in stores and depots.</li>
<li>They typically sell for cash and so may carry negligible receivables.</li>
<li>They have a very short, or even ‘negative’ cash cycle. Because they buy on credit and sell for cash, in respect particularly of food products having a short shelf life, they may receive the cash for sales before they have to pay cash for purchases.</li>
<li class="bullet-last">Due to the combined effects of the previous two points, their current liabilities often exceed their current assets. To the extent that this may be so, supermarkets are generally in the happy position of, in effect, having part of their fixed assets financed by free credit from their suppliers.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">These characteristics are illustrated in the set of published accounts in <a href="28_FinanceforIT_appendix3.xhtml">Appendix 3</a>.</p>
<p class="sectionTitle" id="app2-3">SERVICE BUSINESSES</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Businesses providing ‘know-how’, such as IT and other consultancies, usually have the following financial characteristics:</p>
<div class="ul">
<ul>
<li>Their requirement for non-current assets is often limited primarily to IT and communications equipment, and office space.</li>
<li>They carry negligible tangible inventories.</li>
<li class="bullet-last">Their services are usually sold on credit, but in the case of long contracts their clients may be required to make stage payments, some of them in advance. In this case they may have substantial amounts of both accrued revenue (work done but not yet invoiced) and deferred revenue (work paid for but not yet done). See <a href="29_FinanceforIT_appendix4.xhtml">Appendix 4</a> for information on accounting for long-term contracts.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Other kinds of ‘service business’, such as transport undertakings and public utilities, typically require very large investment in non-current assets and, in the case of utilities, infrastructure.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Finally, there are the various kinds of ‘financial’ businesses – banks, insurance companies etc. In order to understand the accounts of such companies it usually helps to have some knowledge of the business itself.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>