<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Finance for IT Decision Makers, 3rd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="FinanceforIT.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="backMatterPage" id="app4">
<p class="chapterTitle">A4 ACCOUNTING FOR LONG-TERM CONTRACTS</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">A contract is regarded as long-term if the time taken to complete it falls into different accounting periods. A contract requiring to be accounted for as ‘long-term’ will usually extend for a period exceeding one year. However, shorter contracts may fall within the requirement where not to do so would lead to distortion of the results. I would concede that the detailed accounting for long-term contracts belongs in ‘deep accounting’ territory, and there will of course be differences of detail between countries. However, the following few paragraphs are intended to summarise the main principles for the non-specialist.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Obviously the precise financial outcome of a long-term contract will only be known on its completion. However, to await completion of, say, a five-year IT contract before taking into account any revenue (and resulting profit or loss) during the intervening years, during which costs will be incurred, would distort the accounts of those years. The main aim of the accounting rules is to ensure that the accounts in any year show, as accurately as possible, the revenue and costs attributable to long-term contracts, and the resulting profit or loss. The main principles for achieving this outcome are as follows:</p>
<div class="ol">
<ol>
<li class="numlist numlist-override-3"><span class="no-style-override-7"> No profit should be attributed to a long-term contract until the outcome of it can be assessed with reasonable certainty. Where the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, and assuming that costs and contract activity accrue evenly over time, then usually:</span></li>
<li class="numlist numlist-override-4"><span class="no-style-override-7"> Cumulative contract revenue to date is taken as the proportion of total contract price relating to work actually done to date. In years other than the first year of a contract, revenue for the year is thus the cumulative revenue to date less the corresponding figure at the end of the preceding year. You will no doubt recall from earlier parts of the book that revenue earned has nothing to do with whether stage payments have or have not been received.</span></li>
<li class="numlist numlist-override-4"><span class="no-style-override-7"> Cumulative contract cost of sales to date is usually taken as the same proportion as in (2) above of total expected contract costs, plus full provision for any expected losses (see (4) below). Cost of sales for the year is thus the cumulative cost of sales to date less the corresponding figure at the end of the preceding year.</span></li>
<li class="numlist numlist-override-4"><span class="no-style-override-7"> Any losses, for example excess costs or penalties, expected to arise on the contract must be provided for (that is, taken into account by adding to cost of sales) at the time that they are foreseen. The full amount of the expected loss must be provided for, not just the amount of the loss that has arisen to date.</span></li>
<li class="numlist numlist-override-4"><span class="no-style-override-7"> Contract gross profit for the year is the difference between contract revenue and contract cost of sales.</span></li>
</ol>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>