<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Finance for IT Decision Makers, 3rd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="FinanceforIT.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="backMatterPage" id="reading">
<p class="chapterTitle">FURTHER READING</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Note: Later electronic versions of some of these books may be available.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Black, A., Wright, P. and Bachman, J. E. (2001) <span class="italic">In search of shareholder value – Managing the drivers of performance</span>. Financial Times / Prentice Hall, in association with PricewaterhouseCoopers, London.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Brett, M. (2003) <span class="italic">How to read the financial pages – A simple guide to the way money works and the jargon</span>. Random House, London.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Dixon, R. (1994) <span class="italic">Investment appraisal – A guide for managers</span>. Kogan Page, in association with the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, London.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Hanan, M. (2011) <span class="italic">Consultative selling</span>™. Amacom, New York.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Nickson, D. (2012) <span class="italic">Bids, proposals and tenders – succeeding with effective writing.</span> BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Nickson, D. (2008) <span class="italic">IT procurement handbook for SMEs.</span> BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Power, M.J., Desouza, K.C. and Bonifazi, C. (2006) <span class="italic">The</span> <span class="italic">outsourcing handbook – how to implement a successful outsourcing process.</span> Kogan Page, London.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Rice, A. (2011) <span class="italic">Accounts demystified: the astonishingly simple guide to accounting.</span> Pearson Education Limited, Harlow.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Walsh, C. (2008) <span class="italic">Key management ratios – the 100+ ratios that drive company value.</span> Pearson Education Limited, Harlow.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent1">Weetman, P. (2010) <span class="italic">Management accounting.</span> Pearson Education Limited, Harlow.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>