<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Financial Ratios for Executives: How to Assess Company Strength, Fix Problems, and Make Better Decisions</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9781484207321.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><p class="ChapterNumber"><a id="b9781484207321_1"></a>CHAPTER <br/><span class="pink-box">1</span></p>
<p class="ChapterTitle">Ratios Overview</p>
<div>
<p class="noindent">The ratios<a id="cXXX.k10"></a> in this book are tools. They are primarily tools for turning the data contained in financial statements into information used by managers and executives to better understand what is happening in a company. Like all tools, they can be used for things other than their original design, such as evaluating an acquisition, creating pro-forma statements related to potential courses of action, or figuring out which stock to buy.</p>
<p class="indent">Financial ratios<a id="cXXX.1"></a> can <a id="cXXX.2"></a>typically be grouped into one of the following ratio types:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Market value ratios</li>
<li>Liquidity ratios</li>
<li>Performance ratios</li>
<li>Cash flow ratios</li>
<li>Profitability ratios</li>
<li>Debt ratios</li></ul>
<p class="indent">There are a small number of ratios that do not fit into any of these categories. However, we have included them as we have found them very useful ourselves and believe that they make for a more complete book.</p>
<p class="indent">Once a company has had several years of financial ratios, these can then be compared across these years to see if there is a positive or negative development. There are many ratios and all are great to use when a development is to be analyzed.</p>
<p class="indent">The following sections provide a short overview of each of the above ratio types along with a list of common examples, all of which will be defined and discussed in subsequent chapters.</p>
<p id="Sec1" class="Heading1">Market value ratios</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Market value</i> <i>ratios</i> measu<a id="cXXX.3"></a>re how cheap <a id="cXXX.4"></a>or expensive the company’s stock is based on some measure of profit or value. Market value ratios can assist management or an investor in assessing the market’s opinion of the company’s value. Generally, the higher the market value ratio, the higher the company’s stock price will be because the market thinks growth prospects are good and/or they believe the company to be less risky as an investment.</p>
<p class="indent">Common market value ratios include the following:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Dividend payout ratio</li>
<li>Dividend yield</li>
<li>Earnings per share (EPS)<a id="cXXX.5"></a></li>
<li>Enterprise value</li>
<li>Price to book value ratio</li>
<li>Price to earnings ratio (P/E ratio)<a id="cXXX.6"></a></li></ul>
<p id="Sec2" class="Heading1">Liquidity ratios</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Liquidity ratios</i> measure the<a id="cXXX.7"></a> company'<a id="cXXX.8"></a>s ability to pay off short-term debt ­obligations. Most obviously, they can be used to see if a company is in ­trouble and evaluate their ability to make loan payments or pay suppliers. Less ­obviously, they can be used to judge a company’s ability to take on more debt, or spend more cash, to explore new means for growth through innovation or acquisition.</p>
<p class="indent">Common liquidity ratios include the following:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Acid test</li>
<li>Cash conversion cycle</li>
<li>Cash ratio</li>
<li>Current ratio</li>
<li>Operating cash flow</li>
<li>Quick ratio</li>
<li>Working capital</li></ul>
<p id="Sec3" class="Heading1">Performance ratios</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Performance</i> <i>ratios</i> (also<a id="cXXX.9"></a> known as <i>activity ratios</i>) me<a id="cXXX.10"></a>asure a company’s ability to generate sales and derive profit from its resources. Performance ratios are used to measure the relative efficiency of a company based on the use of its assets, leverage, or other such balance sheet items.</p>
<p class="indent">Companies must often strike a balance between the inefficiencies of having too few or too many assets. For example, in the case of too little inventory, you may risk disruption to production and loss of sales. However, sitting on inventory that does not move is a very inefficient use of cash.</p>
<p class="indent">Common performance ratios include the following:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Average collection period</li>
<li>Fixed assets turnover</li>
<li>Gross profit margin</li>
<li>Inventory turnover</li>
<li>Receivable turnover</li>
<li>Total assets turnover</li></ul>
<p id="Sec4" class="Heading1">Cash flow ratios</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Cash flow ratios</i> measure how<a id="cXXX.11"></a> much cas<a id="cXXX.12"></a>h is generated and the safety net that cash provides to the company to finance debt or grow the business. Cash flow ratios provide an additional way of looking at a company’s financial health and performance. Many use the term “cash is king” because it is so vital to the health of an organization.</p>
<p class="indent">Common cash flow ratios include the following:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Cash flow coverage</li>
<li>Dividend payout ratio</li>
<li>Free cash flow</li>
<li>Operating cash flow</li></ul>
<p id="Sec5" class="Heading1">Profitability ratios</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Profitability</i> <i>ratios</i> can b<a id="cXXX.13"></a>e tho<a id="cXXX.14"></a>ught of as the combination of many of the other more specific ratios to show a more complete picture of a company’s ­ability to generate profits. The king of all ratios, return on equity (ROE), can be ­broken down by the DuPont formula in simple terms as ROE = Margin x Turn x Leverage. You can see how this takes into account other operating ratios. Many of the ratios in this section follow the same concept.</p>
<p class="indent">Common profitability ratios include the following:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Current yield</li>
<li>Profit margin</li>
<li>Return on assets (ROA)</li>
<li>Return on net assets (RONA)</li>
<li>Return on equity (ROE)</li>
<li>Return on investment (ROI)</li></ul>
<p id="Sec6" class="Heading1">Debt ratios</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Debt ratios</i> measure the co<a id="cXXX.15"></a><a id="cXXX.16"></a>mpany’s overall debt load and the mix of equity and debt. Debt ratios give us a look at the company’s leverage situation. Debt ratios can be good, bad, or indifferent, depending on a host of factors including who is asking. For example, a high total debt ratio may be good for stockholders not wanting to dilute their shares but bad for the creditors of the company.</p>
<p class="indent">Common debt ratios include the following:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Asset to equity</li>
<li>Asset turnover</li>
<li>Cash flow to debt ratio</li>
<li>Debt ratio</li>
<li>Debt to equity</li>
<li>Equity multiplier</li>
<li>Interest coverage</li></ul></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>