<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Financial Ratios for Executives: How to Assess Company Strength, Fix Problems, and Make Better Decisions</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9781484207321.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><p class="ChapterTitle_buss">Apress Business: The Unbiased Source of Business Information</p>
<p class="noindent">Apress business books provide essential information and practical advice, each written for practitioners by recognized experts. Busy managers and professionals in all areas of the business world—and at all levels of technical sophistication—look to our books for the actionable ideas and tools they need to solve problems, update and enhance their professional skills, make their work lives easier, and capitalize on opportunity.</p>
<p class="indent">Whatever the topic on the business spectrum—entrepreneurship, finance, sales, marketing, management, regulation, information technology, among others—Apress has been praised for providing the objective information and unbiased advice you need to excel in your daily work life. Our authors have no axes to grind; they understand they have one job only—to deliver up-to-date, accurate information simply, concisely, and with deep insight that addresses the real needs of our readers.</p>
<p class="indent">It is increasingly hard to find information—whether in the news media, on the Internet, and now all too often in books—that is even-handed and has your best interests at heart. We therefore hope that you enjoy this book, which has been carefully crafted to meet our standards of quality and unbiased coverage.</p>
<p class="indent">We are always interested in your feedback or ideas for new titles. Perhaps you’d even like to write a book yourself. Whatever the case, reach out to us at <span class="FontName1"><a href="mailto:editorial@apress.com">editorial@apress.com</a></span> and an editor will respond swiftly. Incidentally, at the back of this book, you will find a list of useful related titles. Please visit us at <span class="FontName1"><a href="http://www.apress.com">www.apress.com</a></span> to sign up for newsletters and discounts on future purchases.</p>
<p class="noindent5s"><i>The Apress Business Team</i></p></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>