<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Learning Web Design, 5th Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/lwd5e.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div id="_idContainer006" class="preface">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-2" class="chapterTitle"><a id="_idTextAnchor001"></a>Preface</h1>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer008" class="preface">
			<div id="_idContainer007" class="sidebar">
				<h5 class="SidebarSeries">Online Resource</h5>
				<h5 class="SidebarTitle">The Companion Website</h5>
				<p class="SidebarBody">Be sure to visit the companion website for this book at <a href="http://learningwebdesign.com"><span class="URL-Email--Sidebar-">learningwebdesign.com</span></a>. </p>
				<p class="SidebarBody">It features materials for the exercises, downloadable articles, lists of links from the book, contact information, and more.</p>
			</div>
			<p class="body">Hello and welcome to the <em class="Emphasis">fifth</em> edition of <span class="Citation">Learning Web Design</span>!</p>
			<p class="body">I’ve been documenting web design and development in books like this one for decades, and it continues to fascinate me how the web landscape changes from edition to edition. This fifth edition is no exception! Not only is this version nearly 200 pages longer than the last one, but there are also some significant updates and additions worth noting.</p>
			<p class="body">First, some technologies and techniques that were brand new or even experimental in the last edition have become nicely settled in. HTML5 is the new normal, and CSS is moving ahead with its modular approach, allowing new technologies to emerge and be adopted one at a time. We’ve largely gotten our heads around designing for a seemingly infinite range of devices. Responsive Web Design is now the de facto approach to building sites. As a result, RWD has earned its own chapter in this edition (<a href="lwd5_chapter17.xhtml#_idTextAnchor224"><span class="Xref">Chapter </span><span class="Xref">17</span><span class="Xref">, Responsive Web Design</span></a>). Where in the last edition we pondered and argued how to handle responsive image markup, in this edition, the new responsive image elements are standardized and well supported (<a href="lwd5_chapter07.xhtml#_idTextAnchor088"><span class="Xref">Chapter </span><span class="Xref">7</span><span class="Xref">, Adding Images</span></a>). I think we’re getting the hang of this mobile thing!</p>
			<p class="body">I’ve seen a lot of seismic shifts in web design over the years, and this time, Flexbox and Grid are fundamentally changing the way we approach design. Just as we saw CSS put table-based layouts and 1-pixel spacer GIFs out of their misery, Flexbox and Grid are finally poised to kick our old float-based layout hacks to the curb. It is nothing short of a revolution, and after 25 years, it’s refreshing to have an honest-to-goodness solution for layout. This edition sports a new (and hefty!) chapter on proper page layout with Flexbox and Grid (<a href="lwd5_chapter16.xhtml#_idTextAnchor217"><span class="Xref">Chapter </span><span class="Xref">16</span><span class="Xref">, CSS Layout with Flexbox and Grid</span></a>). </p>
			<p class="body">Although knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript is at the heart of web development, the discipline has been evolving, and frankly, becoming more complicated. I would be shirking my duty if I didn’t at least introduce you to some of the new tools of the trade—CSS processors, feature detection, the command line, task runners, and Git—in a new chapter on the modern web developer toolkit (<a href="lwd5_chapter20.xhtml#_idTextAnchor256"><span class="Xref">Chapter </span><span class="Xref">20</span><span class="Xref">, Modern Web Development Tools</span></a>). Sure, it’s more stuff to learn, but the benefit is a streamlined and more efficient workflow. </p>
			<p class="body">The biggest surprise to me personally was how much web <em class="Emphasis">image</em> production has changed since the fourth edition. Other than the introduction of the PNG format, my graphics chapters have remained essentially unchanged for 20 years. Not so this time around! Our old standby, GIF, is on the brink of retirement, and PNG is the default thanks to its performance advantages and new tools that let even smaller 8-bit PNGs include multiple levels of transparency. But PNG will have to keep its eye on WebP, mentioned in this edition for the first time, which may give it a run for its money in terms of file size and capabilities. The biggest web graphics story, however, is the emergence of SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics). Thanks to widespread browser support (finally!), SVG went from a small “some day” section in the previous edition to an entire “go for it!” chapter in this one (<a href="lwd5_chapter25.xhtml#_idTextAnchor311"><span class="Xref">Chapter </span><span class="Xref">25</span><span class="Xref">, SVG</span></a>). </p>
			<p class="body">As in the first four editions, this book addresses the specific needs and concerns of beginners of all backgrounds, including seasoned graphic designers, programmers looking to expand their skills, and anyone else wanting to learn how to make websites. I’ve done my best to put the experience of sitting in my beginner web design class into a book, with exercises and tests along the way, so you get hands-on experience and can check your progress.</p>
			<p class="body">Whether you are reading this book on your own or using it as a companion to a web design course, I hope it gives you a good head start and that you have fun in the process.</p>
			<h1 class="_HeadA"><a id="_idTextAnchor002"></a>How This Book Is Organized</h1>
			<p class="body"><em class="Emphasis">Learning Web Design, Fifth Edition</em>, is divided into five parts, each dealing with an important aspect of web development.</p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm">Part I: Getting Started</p>
			<p class="ListVariable"><a href="lwd5_chapter01.xhtml#_idTextAnchor009"><span class="Xref">Part I</span></a> lays a foundation for everything that follows in the book. I start off with some important general information about the web design environment, including the various roles you might play, the technologies you might learn, and tools that are available to you. You’ll get your feet wet right away with HTML and CSS and learn how the web and web pages generally work. I’ll also introduce you to some Big Concepts that get you thinking in the same way that modern web designers think about their craft. </p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm">Part II: HTML for Structure</p>
			<p class="ListVariable">The chapters in <a href="lwd5_chapter04.xhtml#_idTextAnchor041"><span class="Xref">Part II</span></a> cover the nitty-gritty of every element and attribute available to give content semantic structure. We’ll cover the markup for text, links, images, tables, forms, and embedded media. </p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm">Part III: CSS for Presentation</p>
			<p class="ListVariable">In the course of <a href="lwd5_chapter11.xhtml#_idTextAnchor131"><span class="Xref">Part III</span></a>, you’ll go from learning the basics of Cascading Style Sheets for changing the presentation of text to creating multicolumn layouts and even adding time-based animation and interactivity to the page. It provides an introduction to Responsive Web Design, as well as the tools and techniques that are part of the modern developer’s workflow.</p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm">Part IV: JavaScript for Behavior</p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Mat Marquis starts <a href="lwd5_chapter21.xhtml#_idTextAnchor266"><span class="Xref">Part IV</span></a> out with a rundown of JavaScript syntax so that you can tell a variable from a function. You’ll get to know some ways that JavaScript is used (including DOM scripting) and existing JavaScript tools such as polyfills and libraries that let you put JavaScript to use quickly, even if you aren’t quite ready to write your own code from scratch.</p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm">Part V: Web Images</p>
			<p class="ListVariable"><a href="lwd5_chapter23.xhtml#_idTextAnchor288"><span class="Xref">Part V</span></a> introduces the various image file formats that are appropriate for the web, provides strategies for choosing them as part of a responsive workflow, and describes how to optimize them to make their file size as small as possible. It also includes a chapter on SVG graphics, which offer great advantages for responsive and interaction design.</p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm">Part VI: Appendices</p>
			<p class="ListVariable"><a href="lwd5_appendixA.xhtml#_idTextAnchor322"><span class="Xref">Part VI</span></a> holds reference material such as test answers, lists of HTML global attributes and CSS Selectors, and a look at HTML5 and its history.</p>
			<h1 class="_HeadA"><a id="_idTextAnchor003"></a>Typographical Conventions</h1>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm"><em class="Emphasis">Italic</em></p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Used to indicate filenames and directory names, as well as for emphasis.</p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm"><span class="URL-Email">Colored italic</span></p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Used to indicate URLs and email addresses.</p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm"><span class="FirstTerm">Colored roman text</span></p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Used for special terms that are being defined.  </p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm"><span class="Code-Inline">Constant width</span></p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Used to indicate code examples and keyboard commands.</p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm"><code class="CodeColor">Colored constant width</code></p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Used for emphasis in code examples.  </p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm"><span class="Replaceable">Constant width italic</span></p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Used to indicate placeholders for attribute and style sheet property values.  </p>
			<p class="ListVariableTerm">→</p>
			<p class="ListVariable">Indicates that a line of code was broken in the text but should remain together on one line in use.</p>
			<h1 class="_HeadA"><a id="_idTextAnchor004"></a>Acknowledgments</h1>
			<p class="body">Once again, many smart and lovely people had my back on this edition.</p>
			<p class="body">I want to say a special thanks to my two <em class="Emphasis">amazing</em> tech reviewers. I am quite indebted to Elika J. Etemad (<em class="Emphasis">fantasai</em>), who, as a member of the W3C CSS Working Group, helped me make this edition more accurate and up-to-date with standards than ever before. She was <em class="Emphasis">tough</em>, but the results are worth it. Petter Dessne brought his computer science expertise as well as valuable perspective as a professor and a reader for whom English is a second language. His good humor and photos of his home in Sweden were appreciated as well! </p>
			<p class="body">I am also grateful for this roster of web design superstars who reviewed particular chapters and passages in their areas of expertise (in alphabetical order): Amelia Bellamy-Royds (SVG), Brent Beer (developer tools), Chris Coyier (SVG), Terence Eden (audio/video), Brad Frost (Responsive Web Design), Lyza Danger Gardner (developer tools), Jason Grigsby (images), Val Head (animation), Daniel Hengeveld (developer tools), Mat Marquis (responsive images), Eric Meyer (CSS layout), Jason Pamental (web fonts), Dan Rose (images), Arsenio Santos (embedded media), Jen Simmons (CSS layout), Adam Simpson (developer tools), and James Williamson (structured data). </p>
			<p class="body">Thanks also to Mat Marquis for his contribution of two lively JavaScript chapters that I could never have written myself, and to Jen Simmons for writing the Foreword and for her ongoing support of <span class="Citation">Learning Web Design</span>. </p>
			<p class="body">I want to thank my terrific team of folks at O’Reilly Media: Meg Foley (Acquisitions Editor), Jeff Bleiel (Developmental Editor), Kristen Brown (Production Editor), Rachel Monaghan (Copyeditor), Sharon Wilkey (Proofreader), and Lucie Haskins (Indexer). Special thanks go to InDesign and book production expert Ron Bilodeau, who turned my design into a template and a set of tools that made book production an absolute joy. Special thanks also go to Edie Freedman for the beautiful cover design and half a lifetime of friendship and guidance. </p>
			<p class="body">Finally, no Acknowledgments would be complete without profound appreciation for the love and support of my dearest ones, Jeff and Arlo. </p>
			<h1 class="_HeadA"><a id="_idTextAnchor005"></a>About the Author</h1>
			<p class="body">Jennifer Robbins began designing for the web in 1993 as the graphic designer for Global Network Navigator, the first commercial website. In addition to this book, she has written multiple editions of <span class="Citation">Web Design in a Nutshell</span> and <span class="Citation">HTML5 Pocket Reference</span>, published by O’Reilly. She is a founder and organizer of the Artifact Conference, which addresses issues related to mobile web design. Jennifer has spoken at many conferences and has taught beginning web design at Johnson and Wales University in Providence, Rhode Island. When not on the clock, Jennifer enjoys making things, indie rock, cooking, travel, and raising a cool kid. </p>
			<h1 class="_HeadA"><a id="_idTextAnchor006"></a>How to Contact Us</h1>
			<p class="body">Please address comments and questions concerning this book to the publisher:</p>
			<p class="body">O’Reilly Media, Inc.</p>
			<p class="body">1005 Gravenstein Highway North</p>
			<p class="body">Sebastopol, CA 95472</p>
			<p class="body">800-998-9938 (in the United States or Canada)</p>
			<p class="body">707-829-0515 (international or local)</p>
			<p class="body">707-829-0104 (fax)</p>
			<p class="body">We have a web page for this book, where we list errata, examples, and any additional information. You can access this page at<a href="http://bit.ly/learningWebDesign_5e"><span class="URL-Email"> bit.ly/learningWebDesign_5e</span></a>. </p>
			<p class="body">To comment or ask technical questions about this book, send email to <a href="mailto:bookquestions@oreilly.com"><span class="URL-Email">bookquestions@oreilly.com</span></a>.</p>
			<p class="body">For more information about our books, courses, conferences, and news, see our website at <a href="http://www.oreilly.com"><span class="URL-Email">www.oreilly.com</span></a>.</p>
			<p class="body">Find us on Facebook: <a href="http://facebook.com/oreilly"><span class="URL-Email">facebook.com/oreilly</span></a></p>
			<p class="body">Follow us on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/oreillymedia"><span class="URL-Email">twitter.com/oreillymedia</span></a></p>
			<p class="body">Watch us on YouTub<a id="_idTextAnchor007"></a>e: <a href="http://www.youtube.com/oreillymedia"><span class="URL-Email">www.youtube.com/oreillymedia</span></a></p>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>