<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Learning Web Design, 5th Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/lwd5e.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div id="_idContainer001">
			<h5 class="copyTitle">Learning Web Design, Fifth Edition</h5>
			<p class="CopyrightTitleSub">A Beginner’s Guide to HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Web Graphics</p>
			<p class="CopyrightAuthor">by Jennifer Niederst Robbins</p>
			<p class="CopyrightBody">Copyright © 2018 O’Reilly Media, Inc. All rights reserved.Printed in Canada.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightBody">Published by O’Reilly Media, Inc., 1005 Gravenstein Highway North, Sebastopol, CA 95472.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightBody">O’Reilly Media books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales promotional use. Online editions are also available for most titles (<em class="Emphasis">oreilly.com/safari</em>). For more information, contact our corporate/institutional sales department: 800-998-9938 or <em class="Emphasis">corporate@oreilly.com</em>.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit"><span class="CopyrightHeadRunIn">Editors:</span> Meg Foley and Jeff Bleiel</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit"><span class="CopyrightHeadRunIn">Production Editor:</span> Kristen Brown</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit"><span class="CopyrightHeadRunIn">Cover Designer:</span> Edie Freedman</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit"><span class="CopyrightHeadRunIn">Interior Designer:</span> Jennifer Robbins</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit"><span class="CopyrightHeadRunIn">Print History:</span></p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit">March 2001:	First edition.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit">June 2003: 	Second edition.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit">June 2007:	Third edition. </p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit">August 2012:	Fourth edition.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightCredit">May 2018: 	Fifth edition.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightLegalese">The O’Reilly logo is a registered trademark of O’Reilly Media, Inc. “O’Reilly Digital Studio” and related trade dress are trademarks of O’Reilly Media, Inc. Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Elements, HomeSite, and Fireworks are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. Microsoft and Expression Web are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book, and O’Reilly Media, Inc. was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in caps or initial caps.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightLegalese">While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher and author assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.</p>
			<p class="CopyrightISBN-PrintInfo">ISBN: 978-1-491-96020-2</p>
			<p class="CopyrightISBN-PrintInfo">[TI]                                                                                                                                                                 [2018-11-30]	</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>