<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous: Write Programs, Publish Packages, and Develop Interactive Websites with JavaScript</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780137843879.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2f" id="pref02"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xiii"></span>Preface</h2>
<p class="noindent"><em>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous</em> is designed to get you started writing practical and modern JavaScript programs as quickly as possible, using the latest JavaScript technologies and with a focus on the real tools used every day by software developers. JavaScript is a big language with correspondingly enormous tutorials. The good news, though, is that you don’t have to learn everything to get started … you just have to learn enough to be <em>dangerous</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">Unlike most JavaScript tutorials, <em>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous</em> treats JavaScript as a <em>general-purpose</em> programming language right from the start, so our examples won’t be confined to the browser. In addition to interactive HTML websites, you’ll learn how to write command-line programs and self-contained JavaScript packages as well. We’ll even have a chance to explore important software development practices like version control, functional programming, and test-driven development. The result is a practical narrative introduction to JavaScript—a perfect complement both to in-browser coding tutorials and to the voluminous but hard-to-navigate JavaScript reference materials on the Web.</p>
<p class="indent">In addition to teaching you specific skills, <em>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous</em> also helps you develop <em>technical sophistication</em>—the seemingly magical ability to solve practically any technical problem. Technical sophistication includes concrete skills like version control and HTML, as well as fuzzier skills like Googling the error message and knowing when to just reboot the darn thing. Throughout this book, we’ll have abundant opportunities to develop technical sophistication in the context of real-world examples.</p>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xiv"></span>Chapter by Chapter</h3>
<p class="noindent"><a href="ch01.xhtml#ch01">Chapter 1</a> begins at the beginning with a series of simple “hello, world” programs using several different techniques, including an “alert” in the browser and a command-line shell script using <em>Node.js</em>, a fast and widely used execution environment for JavaScript programs. We’ll even deploy a (very simple) dynamic JavaScript application to the live Web.</p>
<p class="indent">The next three chapters cover some of the most important JavaScript data structures. <a href="ch02.xhtml#ch02">Chapter 2</a> covers strings, <a href="ch03.xhtml#ch03">Chapter 3</a> covers arrays, and <a href="ch04.xhtml#ch04">Chapter 4</a> covers other native objects like numbers, dates, and regular expressions. Taken together, these chapters constitute a gentle introduction to <em>object-oriented programming</em> with JavaScript.</p>
<p class="indent">In <a href="ch05.xhtml#ch05">Chapter 5</a>, you’ll learn the basics of <em>functions</em>, an essential subject for virtually every programming language. <a href="ch06.xhtml#ch06">Chapter 6</a> then applies this knowledge to an elegant and powerful style of coding known as <em>functional programming.</em></p>
<p class="indent"><a href="ch07.xhtml#ch07">Chapter 7</a> shows how to make custom JavaScript objects using the example of palindromes (which read the same forward and backward). We’ll start off with the simplest palindrome definition possible, and then we’ll extend it significantly in <a href="ch08.xhtml#ch08">Chapter 8</a> using a powerful programming technique known as <em>test-driven development</em>. In the process, you’ll learn how to create and publish a self-contained JavaScript software package called an <em>NPM module</em>.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="ch09.xhtml#ch09">Chapter 9</a> builds on the palindrome module to make a live website for detecting palindromes. In the process, we’ll learn about <em>events, DOM manipulation, alerts, prompts</em>, and an example of an HTML <em>form</em>.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="ch10.xhtml#ch10">Chapter 10</a> covers the much-neglected topic of <em>shell scripts</em> using JavaScript. You’ll learn how to read text both from local files and from live URLs. You’ll also learn how to extract information from a regular text file as if it were an HTML web page.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="ch11.xhtml#ch11">Chapter 11</a> completes the tutorial by showing you how to create a real, industrial-grade website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The result is an interactive image gallery that dynamically changes images, CSS classes, and page text in response to user clicks. We’ll conclude by deploying the full sample website to the live Web.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev2">Additional Features</h3>
<p class="noindent">In addition to the main tutorial material, <em>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous</em> includes a large number of exercises to help you test your understanding and to extend the material in the main text. The exercises include frequent hints and often include the expected answers, with community solutions available by separate subscription at <a href="http://www.learnenough.com">www.learnenough.com</a>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev3"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xv"></span>Final Thoughts</h3>
<p class="noindent"><em>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous</em> gives you a practical introduction to the fundamentals of JavaScript, both in its original niche of the web browser and as a general-purpose programming language. After learning the techniques covered in this tutorial, and especially after developing your technical sophistication, you’ll know everything you need to write shell scripts, publish Node packages, and design and deploy interactive websites with JavaScript. You’ll also be ready for a huge variety of other resources, including books, blog posts, and online documentation. A particularly good next step is learning how to make dynamic database-backed web applications, as covered in <em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em> and the <em>Ruby on Rails™ Tutorial</em>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev4">Learn Enough Scholarships</h3>
<p class="noindent">Learn Enough is committed to making a technical education available to as wide a variety of people as possible. As part of this commitment, in 2016 we created the Learn Enough Scholarship program (<a href="https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship">https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship</a>). Scholarship recipients get free or deeply discounted access to the Learn Enough All Access subscription, which includes all of the Learn Enough online book content, embedded videos, exercises, and community exercise answers.</p>
<p class="indent">As noted in a 2019 RailsConf Lightning Talk (<a href="https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship-talk">https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship-talk</a>), the Learn Enough Scholarship application process is incredibly simple: just fill out a confidential text area telling us a little about your situation. The scholarship criteria are generous and flexible—we understand that there are an enormous number of reasons for wanting a scholarship, from being a student, to being between jobs, to living in a country with an unfavorable exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Chances are that, if you feel like you’ve got a good reason, we’ll think so, too.</p>
<p class="indent">So far, Learn Enough has awarded more than 2,500 scholarships to aspiring developers around the country and around the world. To apply, visit the Learn Enough Scholarship page at <a href="http://www.learnenough.com/scholarship">www.learnenough.com/scholarship</a>. Maybe the next scholarship recipient could be you!</p>
<div class="box1">
<p class="noindent">Register your copy of <em>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous</em> on the InformIT site for convenient access to updates and/or corrections as they become available. To start the registration process, go to <a href="http://informit.com/register">informit.com/register</a> and log in or create an account. Enter the product ISBN (9780137843749) and click Submit. Look on the Registered Products tab for an Access Bonus Content link next to this product, and follow that link to access any available bonus materials. If you would like to be notified of exclusive offers on new editions and updates, please check the box to receive email from us.</p>
</div>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xvi"></span>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>