<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Learn Enough Python to Be Dangerous: Software Development, Flask Web Apps, and Beginning Data Science with Python</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780138051051.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2f" id="fm"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_i"></span>Praise for Learn Enough Tutorials</h2>
<p class="noindent">“Just started the #100DaysOfCode journey. Today marks day 1. I have completed @mhartl’s great Ruby tutorial at @LearnEnough and am looking forward to starting on Ruby on Rails from tomorrow. Onwards and upwards.”</p>
<p class="noindent-l">—Optimize Prime (@_optimize), Twitter post</p>
<p class="noindent">“Ruby and Sinatra and Heroku, oh my! Almost done with this live web application. It may be a simple palindrome app, but it’s also simply exciting! #100DaysOfCode #ruby @LearnEnough #ABC #AlwaysBeCoding #sinatra #heroku”</p>
<p class="noindent-l">—Tonia Del Priore (@toninjaa), Twitter post; Software Engineer for a FinTech Startup for 3+ years</p>
<p class="noindent">“I have nothing but fantastic things to say about @LearnEnough courses. I am just about finished with the #javascript course. I must say, the videos are mandatory because @mhartl will play the novice and share in the joy of having something you wrote actually work!”</p>
<p class="noindent-l">—Claudia Vizena</p>
<p class="noindent">“I must say, this Learn Enough series is a masterpiece of education. Thank you for this incredible work!”</p>
<p class="noindent-l">—Michael King</p>
<p class="noindent">“I want to thank you for the amazing job you have done with the tutorials. They are likely the best tutorials I have ever read.”</p>
<p class="noindent-l">—Pedro Iatzky<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_ii"></span></p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>