<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Finance Book, 2nd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/template.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>
<p class="chap_title"><a id="page_438"></a>37 The reliability, relevance and trustworthiness of financial statements</p>
<h2 class="h2s">Why we need financial information</h2>
<p class="noindent">Financial information is used to make decisions. <a id="gloss-48" href="Glossary.xhtml#gloss_48"><span class="italic">Financial statements</span></a> are thought of by many (if not most) people, whether they are investors or non-investors, to be the primary source of financial information about a business or company. Therefore, it may be surprising to learn that, despite their perceived importance, financial statements have a number of significant limitations.</p>
<p class="noindent">Whether you are an investor, customer, employee, creditor or other stakeholder, it is important to be aware of the limitations, when making decisions based on financial statements. </p>
<h2 class="h2s">A focus on the past and not the future</h2>
<p class="noindent">Financial statements focus on the past because historic information is <span class="italic">reliable</span> whereas the future, by definition, is uncertain.</p>
<p class="noindent">By reporting the past, financial statements can capture truthfully what ‘has happened’ because evidence of historic transactions should exist. </p>
<p class="noindent">Historic information can also be independently validated through external audits, giving investors and other stakeholders more confidence in the reported numbers (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter20.xhtml">Chapter 20 External financial audit</a></span>).</p>
<h2 class="h2s">Financial statements do not reflect the true worth of a business</h2>
<p class="noindent">A business typically records its asset values at historic cost (known by accountants as ‘book value’). Historic cost does not reflect current market values.</p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_439"></a>While accounting regulations permit a choice of either historic cost or revaluation as a basis for recording assets (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter17.xhtml">Chapter 17 Revaluation</a></span>), a balance sheet does not capture hidden value inherent within a business. <span class="italic">Inherent goodwill</span> arises from factors such as reputation, location, brand, customer loyalty, employee expertise etc. Accounting regulations do not permit inherent goodwill to be reflected on a balance sheet (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter10.xhtml">Chapter 10 Goodwill and other intangibles</a></span>). Yet, for successful businesses, inherent goodwill will comprise a large (if not the largest) element of their value (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter28.xhtml">Chapter 28 Business valuation</a></span>).</p>
<p class="noindent">A balance sheet may also not reveal all liabilities. Certain liabilities are hidden because they are not known about at the time financial statements are produced, for example claims for faulty products that can be made within a guarantee period. These claims will necessarily be omitted from the balance sheet, until they are submitted by the customer.</p>
<h2 class="h2s">How accurate are financial statements?</h2>
<p class="noindent">While financial statements are based on historic information and therefore expected to be reliable, they are nevertheless unlikely, if ever, to be entirely accurate.</p>
<h2 class="h2a">True and fair</h2>
<p class="noindent">Financial statements are prepared on a ‘true and fair’ basis, which means that the numbers should be free of <span class="italic">significant</span> errors and also not be subject to bias. True and fair is not, however, a <span class="italic">guarantee</span> that the accounts are free of all errors. At best, they should not contain significant errors.</p>
<h2 class="h2a">Management estimates and judgements</h2>
<p class="noindent">Financial statements include numerous estimates and judgements, many of which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Examples of estimates, judgements and uncertainties that directly affect numbers reported in the financial statements (income, expenditure, assets and liabilities) include:</p>
<h2 class="h2a"><a id="page_440"></a>Assets</h2>
<h2 class="h2b">Purchased goodwill</h2>
<p class="noindent">Purchased goodwill (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter10.xhtml">Chapter 10 Goodwill and other intangibles</a></span>) is subject to an annual impairment test to validate that the carrying value continues to be justified. Directors use their judgement to assess the future cash flows, which support the balance sheet value of goodwill. Future cash flows are by their very nature subjective and therefore ultimately a matter of judgement.</p>
<h2 class="h2b">Stock</h2>
<p class="noindent">The valuation of stock (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter11.xhtml">Chapter 11 Stock</a></span>) can involve a high degree of judgement to assess its likelihood of sale. The value of slow moving or obsolete inventory must be reduced to <span class="italic">net realisable value</span>, where this is lower than cost.</p>
<h2 class="h2a">Liabilities</h2>
<h2 class="h2b">Provisions</h2>
<p class="noindent">Provisions (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter14.xhtml">Chapter 14 Provisions and contingencies</a></span>) are by nature judgemental and based on assumptions. For example, provisions for claims made against a company can only be estimated once compensation is finally agreed between the parties.</p>
<h2 class="h2b">Operating leases</h2>
<p class="noindent">Operating leases carry financial commitments, for which a company is legally liable. Yet, until quite recently, accounting standards did not require the liability in relation to operating leases to be included in financial statements.</p>
<p class="noindent">Under IFRS 16, for accounting periods starting <span class="italic">after</span> 1 January 2019, commitments under operating leases must be included in the balance sheets of companies (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter09.xhtml">Chapter 9 Tangible fixed assets and depreciation</a></span>).</p>
<p class="noindent">Under UK GAAP, operating lease commitments are an example of off-balance sheet financing, although they must be disclosed in the supporting notes to the accounts.</p>
<h2 class="h2a"><a id="page_441"></a>Profit and loss</h2>
<p class="noindent">Many accounting policies involve judgement that impact accounting profit:</p>
<ul class="box">
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Revenue recognition (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter06.xhtml">Chapter 6 Revenue recognition</a></span>)</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Capitalised expenditure (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter07.xhtml">Chapter 7 Opex and capex</a></span>)</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Rates of depreciation (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter09.xhtml">Chapter 9 Tangible fixed assets and depreciation</a></span>)</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Assumptions on accruals (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter13.xhtml">Chapter 13 Prepayments and accruals</a></span>)</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Impairment charges (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter18.xhtml">Chapter 18 Impairment</a></span>)</li>
</ul>
<h2 class="h2s">The risk of fraud</h2>
<p class="noindent">A company’s income, expenditure, assets and liabilities are all susceptible to the risk of fraud. Legally directors have the primary responsibility for preventing and detecting fraud. They are expected to create a control environment in which fraud can be prevented or detected.</p>
<p class="noindent">Investors, however, can never be certain that the financial statements are free from fraud. For example, where directors are complicit in fraud, they will attempt to conceal this from shareholders.</p>
<p class="noindent">Unlike directors, auditors are not primarily responsible for fraud detection. Auditors are required to exercise due care and professional scepticism when conducting audits and use professional judgement around estimates. It is important to note that auditors will not check every transaction and may not be able to uncover fraud, especially carefully concealed frauds, where management is complicit (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter20.xhtml">Chapter 20 External financial audit</a></span>).</p>
<h2 class="h2s">A snapshot of the business</h2>
<p class="noindent">A balance sheet shows assets and liabilities at a particular <span class="italic">point in time,</span> typically on the same date each year, to enable year on year comparison. A snapshot taken a day (or even a minute) earlier or <a id="page_442"></a>later may show a very different picture of the business, in part because of the timing of transactions.</p>
<p class="noindent">For example, a company may manage its cash resources by delaying payment to creditors owed at the balance sheet date. It could use this cash to pay creditors the day after the balance sheet date. A reviewer of balance sheets prepared on these two different dates would likely form a very different view of the liquidity of the business.</p>
<p class="noindent">Companies are able to choose their balance sheet date. The choice of date can significantly impact the financial position portrayed. For example, tour operators typically choose a balance sheet date towards the end of the summer, whereas gift retailers select the end of December, as this is when seasonal trading patterns result in the most favourable cash balances.</p>
<h2 class="h2s">Can the past be used to guide the future?</h2>
<p class="noindent">A company’s future performance is usually more important that its past performance, especially when making investment decisions (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter28.xhtml">Chapter 28 Business valuation</a></span>). While investors and other stakeholders can scrutinise historic financial information, they can only reveal what <span class="italic">has</span> happened. While this may offer some reassurance about the ability or capability of a business to generate a similar performance in future years, it is certainly no guarantee about future performance. In short, historic information lacks <span class="italic">relevance</span>.</p>
<p class="noindent">Investors and other stakeholders ideally want information relating to the future as this is more relevant to decision making.</p>
<p class="noindent">In addition, financial statements are typically significantly out of date. Depending on the size of the company, information may not be published until up to 9 months after the financial year end (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter21.xhtml">Chapter 21 Information in the public domain</a></span>).</p>
<p class="noindent">Financial reporting has moved cautiously towards incorporating forward looking disclosures, for example by including <a id="page_443"></a>going concern and viability disclosures (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter25.xhtml">Chapter 25 Insolvency and going concern risk</a></span>). The <span class="italic">reliability</span> of these forward-looking disclosures remains a subject of close scrutiny, however, as does the quality of auditors’ independent assessments of these disclosures (see <span class="bold"><a href="Chapter20.xhtml">Chapter 20 External financial audit</a></span>). This is especially the case whenever there are high profile corporate collapses.</p>
<p class="noindent">The accounts and audit reports of both BHS (2016) and Carillion (2018), for example, gave little or no indication in their going concern or viability disclosures about survival into the future. Yet both businesses failed shortly after filing their financial statements.</p>
<p class="noindent">While <span class="italic">relevant</span> information is highly desirable, there is a trade-off in that any information provided will suffer from a lack of <span class="italic">reliability</span>. The inherent uncertainty of forward-looking statements have, therefore, kept financial statements anchored around their reporting of historic information.</p>
<h2 class="h2s">Are there any plans to enhance the reliability, relevance or trustworthiness of financial information?</h2>
<p class="noindent">It is argued that the UK already has one of the strongest corporate governance regimes in the world. However, despite the progress made over 30 years towards strengthening UK corporate governance, there continue to be too many high profile, unexpected, corporate failures and the question of who to blame resurfaces perennially.</p>
<p class="noindent">The downfall of high-profile companies such as Carillion, Patisserie Valerie and Thomas Cook, amongst others, have heightened the need for urgent reform, specifically around the role and responsibility of directors and auditors.</p>
<h2 class="h2s">Proposals to strengthen the UK’s framework for major companies</h2>
<p class="noindent">In response to continued business collapses, the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) set out proposals in 2021 to reform the UK’s framework for major companies, including <a id="page_444"></a>the way they are audited. The objectives of the proposals (set out in a White Paper consultation) were to:</p>
<div class="box4">
<ul class="box">
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Restore public trust in the way that the UK’s largest companies are run and scrutinised.</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Ensure that the UK’s most significant corporate entities are governed responsibly.</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Empower investors, creditors, workers and other stakeholders by giving them access to reliable and meaningful information on a company’s performance.</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>Keep the UK’s legal frameworks for major businesses at the forefront of international best practice.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p class="noindent">The government’s proposals, in particular around respect of financial reporting, directors and auditors, include the following:</p>
<div class="box4">
<ul class="box">
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>The current framework is inadequate in holding the directors of companies to account for corporate failure. The consultation proposes new reporting and attestation requirements to sharpen directors’ accountability.</li>
<li class="box"><span class="ash">■</span><span class="pad1"></span>While auditors check for directors’ compliance with legal duties and accounting standards and provide an opinion that the accounts are free from material misstatement, they do not address the increasing expectations of shareholders and other users of company reporting that the audit report should be more forward looking and informative.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p class="noindent">The government consultation includes a number of proposals to address this, including the setting up of a new, stand-alone audit profession, underpinned by a common purpose and principles – including a clear public interest focus.</p>
<p class="noindent">The proposals are far ranging and subject to widespread consultation and therefore may evolve. The full consultation can be accessed on the UK government website.<sup><a href="Chapter37.xhtml#fn1" id="rfn1">1</a></sup></p>
<p class="footnoot"><span class="bold"><a href="Chapter37.xhtml#rfn1" id="fn1">1</a></span> gov.uk/government/consultations/restoring-trust-in-audit-and-corporate-governance- proposals-on-reforms</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>