<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Finance Book, 2nd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/template.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>
<p class="copyrightt"><a id="page_viii"></a><span class="bold">PEARSON EDUCATION LIMITED</span></p>
<p class="copyright">KAO Two</p>
<p class="copyright">KAO Park</p>
<p class="copyright">Harlow CM17 9NA</p>
<p class="copyright">United Kingdom</p>
<p class="copyright">Tel: +44 (0)1279 623623</p>
<p class="copyright">Web: <a href="http://www.pearson.com/uk">www.pearson.com/uk</a></p>
<p class="copyright-b"></p>
<p class="copyright1">First published 2017 (print and electronic)</p>
<p class="copyright"><span class="bold">Second edition published</span> 2022 (print and electronic)</p>
<p class="copyright1">© Stuart Warner and Si Hussain 2017 (print and electronic) </p>
<p class="copyright">© Pearson Education 2022 (print and electronic) </p>
<p class="copyright1">The rights of Stuart Warner and Si Hussain to be identified as authors of this work have been asserted by them in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. </p>
<p class="copyright1">The print publication is protected by copyright. Prior to any prohibited reproduction, storage in a retrieval system, distribution or transmission in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, recording or otherwise, permission should be obtained from the publisher or, where applicable, a licence permitting restricted copying in the United Kingdom should be obtained from the Copyright Licensing Agency Ltd, Barnard’s Inn, 86 Fetter Lane, London EC4A 1EN.</p>
<p class="copyright1">The ePublication is protected by copyright and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased, or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorised distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the authors’ and the publisher’s rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.</p>
<p class="copyright1">All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners. The use of any trademark in this text does not vest in the author or publisher any trademark ownership rights in such trademarks, nor does the use of such trademarks imply any affiliation with or endorsement of this book by such owners.</p>
<p class="copyright1">Pearson Education is not responsible for the content of third-party internet sites.</p>
<p class="copyright1">ISBN:<span class="pad1"></span>978-1-292-40198-0 (print)</p>
<p class="copyright"><span class="pad"></span>978-1-292-40199-7 (PDF)</p>
<p class="copyright"><span class="pad"></span>978-1-292-40200-0 (ePub) </p>
<p class="copyright1"><span class="bold">British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data</span></p>
<p class="copyright">A catalogue record for the print edition is available from the British Library</p>
<p class="copyright1"><span class="bold">Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</span> </p>
<p class="copyright">Names: Warner, Stuart, author. | Hussain, Si, author.</p>
<p class="copyright">Title: The finance book: understand the numbers even if you’re not a finance professional / Stuart Warner and Si Hussain.</p>
<p class="copyright">Description: Second edition. | Harlow, England; New York: Pearson, 2022. | Includes bibliographical references and index.</p>
<p class="copyright">Identifiers: LCCN 2022006906 (print) | LCCN 2022006907 (ebook) | ISBN 9781292401980 (paperback) | ISBN 9781292401997 (pdf) | ISBN 9781292402000 (epub)</p>
<p class="copyright">Subjects: LCSH: Business enterprises—Finance.</p>
<p class="copyright">Classification: LCC HG4026 .W369 2022 (print) | LCC HG4026 (ebook) | DDC 658.15--dc23/eng/20220210</p>
<p class="copyright">LC record available at <a href="https://lccn.loc.gov/2022006906">https://lccn.loc.gov/2022006906</a></p>
<p class="copyright">LC ebook record available at <a href="https://lccn.loc.gov/2022006907">https://lccn.loc.gov/2022006907</a></p>
<p class="copyright1">10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1</p>
<p class="copyright">26 25 24 23 22</p>
<p class="copyright1">Cover design by Kelly Miller</p>
<p class="copyright1">Print edition typeset in 9/13 pts and Stone Serif ITC Pro by Straive</p>
<p class="copyright">Printed and Bound by CPI UK </p>
<p class="copyright1">NOTE THAT ANY PAGE CROSS REFERENCES REFER TO THE PRINT EDITION</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>