<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Finance Book, 2nd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/template.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>
<div class="boxp1">
<h2 class="h2c">Pearson’s Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion</h2>
<p class="noindenta">Pearson is dedicated to creating bias-free content that reflects the diversity, depth and breadth of all learners’ lived experiences. We embrace the many dimensions of diversity including, but not limited to, race, ethnicity, gender, sex, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, ability, age and religious or political beliefs.</p>
<p class="noindenta1">Education is a powerful force for equity and change in our world. It has the potential to deliver opportunities that improve lives and enable economic mobility. As we work with authors to create content for every product and service, we acknowledge our responsibility to demonstrate inclusivity and incorporate diverse scholarship so that everyone can achieve their potential through learning. As the world’s leading learning company, we have a duty to help drive change and live up to our purpose to help more people create a better life for themselves and to create a better world.</p>
<p class="noindenta1">Our ambition is to purposefully contribute to a world where:</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li class="bull">•<span class="pad1"></span>Everyone has an equitable and lifelong opportunity to succeed through learning.</li>
<li class="bull">•<span class="pad1"></span>Our educational products and services are inclusive and represent the rich diversity of learners.</li>
<li class="bull">•<span class="pad1"></span>Our educational content accurately reflects the histories and lived experiences of the learners we serve.</li>
<li class="bull">•<span class="pad1"></span>Our educational content prompts deeper discussions with students and motivates them to expand their own learning and worldview.</li>
</ul>
<p class="noindenta1">We are also committed to providing products that are fully accessible to all learners. As per Pearson’s guidelines for accessible educational Web media, we test and retest the capabilities of our products against the highest standards for every release, following the WCAG guidelines in developing new products for copyright year 2022 and beyond. You can learn more about Pearson’s commitment to accessibility at: </p>
<p class="noindenta"><a href="http://www.pearson.com/us/accessibility.html">https://www.pearson.com/us/accessibility.html</a><a id="page_xviii"></a></p>
<p class="noindenta">While we work hard to present unbiased, fully accessible content, we want to hear from you about any concerns or needs regarding this Pearson product so that we can investigate and address them.</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li class="bull">•<span class="pad1"></span>Please contact us with concerns about any potential bias at: <a href="http://www.pearson.com/report-bias.html">https://www.pearson.com/report-bias.html</a></li>
<li class="bull">•<span class="pad1"></span>For accessibility-related issues, such as using assistive technology with Pearson products, alternative text requests, or accessibility documentation, email the Pearson Disability Support team at: disability.support@pearson.com<a id="page_xix"></a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>