<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Finance Book, 2nd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/template.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>
<p class="chap_title"><a id="page_485"></a>Glossary</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_1"><span class="font1">Abridged accounts</span> Accounts that can be filed by small companies at Companies House (UK). Abridged accounts contain fewer financial disclosures. See also <span class="italic">statutory accounts.</span></p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_2"><span class="font1">Accounting standards</span> Rules and guidelines that set out how transactions should be recorded and presented in financial statements.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_3"><span class="font1">Accounts payable</span> Process purchase invoices and pay suppliers.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_4"><span class="font1">Accounts receivable</span> Process sales invoices and collect payments from customers.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_5"><span class="font1">Accruals</span> Goods or services which have been received, but not yet invoiced or paid. Also known as accrued expenses.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_6"><span class="font1">Accrued income</span> Income from the provision of goods or services to a third party which has not yet been invoiced.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_7"><span class="font1">Amortisation</span> Another word for depreciation. Amortisation is an accounting expense that reflects the usage, wearing-out or ‘consumption’ of (intangible) fixed assets.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_8"><span class="font1">Angel investors</span> Wealthy individuals who invest their own capital in early-stage companies in return for an equity stake in the business. Also known as business angels.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_9"><span class="font1">Asset-based finance</span> Source of debt finance for smaller businesses that are unable to access debt finance through more traditional routes, e.g. banks.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_10"><span class="font1">Audit</span> An examination of a company’s financial statements carried out by external independent auditors.<a id="page_486"></a></p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_11"><span class="font1">Budget</span> A financial and operational business plan.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_12"><span class="font1">Capex</span> Payments to purchase or improve long-term assets. Also known as capital expenditure.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_13"><span class="font1">Capital allowances</span> An apportionment of the cost of an asset over its life, which can be deducted from taxable profit.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_14"><span class="font1">Capital and reserves</span> Owners’ equity in a business. Numerically, it is equivalent to net assets in a balance sheet.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_15"><span class="font1">Capital employed</span> Total assets less current liabilities. Also known as <span class="italic">TALCL</span>.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_16"><span class="font1">Capital gain</span> If a company sells an asset or investment for more than its original cost, it is subject to tax on the ‘capital gain’ which arises.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_17"><span class="font1">Capital reserves</span> Surpluses arising from activities other than trading.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_18"><span class="font1">Confirmation statement</span> An annual return that every company must submit to Companies House (UK) to confirm information held about the company.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_19"><span class="font1">Contribution</span> Sales revenue less variable costs.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_20"><span class="font1">Corporate governance</span> System by which companies are managed (i.e. directed and controlled).</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_21"><span class="font1">Corporation tax</span> Tax on a company’s profits.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_22"><span class="font1">Cost of capital</span> Cost of financing an investment over the long term, which is the discount rate used in NPV and IRR calculations.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_23"><span class="font1">Covenant</span> Financial performance limit or target that must be met as a condition of debt finance.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_24"><span class="font1">Credit control</span> Managing and collecting amounts owed by credit customers (debtors).</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_25"><span class="font1">Creditor</span> A ‘credit’ supplier who accepts payment after providing goods or services, as opposed to a cash supplier who is paid at the time of receipt. Also known as payables.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_26"><span class="font1">Creditor days</span> Average number of days of outstanding creditors for all suppliers.<a id="page_487"></a></p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_27"><span class="font1">Crowd (or peer) lending</span> Online lending directly to small and medium-sized businesses (see also <span class="italic">equity crowdfunding</span>). Also known as peer-to-peer (P2P) lending.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_28"><span class="font1">CVP analysis</span> Cost-Volume-Profit (or break-even) analysis.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_29"><span class="font1">DCF</span> Discounted cash flow. Cash flow discounted to present value recognising the time value of money.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_30"><span class="font1">Debenture</span> A loan agreement issued by a company which is typically secured and carries a fixed rate of interest.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_31"><span class="font1">Debt factoring</span> Outsourcing the collection of debt to a third party, which has specific expertise in managing and collecting debts.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_32"><span class="font1">Debt finance</span> Money raised from debtholders (banks, finance houses, individuals, etc.).</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_33"><span class="font1">Debtor</span> A ‘credit’ customer who pays after receiving goods or services, as opposed to a cash customer who pays at the time of receipt. Also known as receivables.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_34"><span class="font1">Debtor days</span> Average number of days that a company takes to collect cash from its credit customers.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_35"><span class="font1">Deferred income</span> Early or advance payment from a customer for goods or services not yet delivered.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_36"><span class="font1">Deferred tax</span> Timing differences between accounting and tax regulations.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_37"><span class="font1">Depreciation</span> Cost of using fixed assets. It is an accounting expense that reflects the usage, wearing-out or ‘consumption’ of (tangible) fixed assets.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_38"><span class="font1">Double taxation</span> Where a company resident in two (or more) countries is potentially subject to tax in both countries.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_39"><span class="font1">Earnings</span> Often used as a proxy term for profit, typically to refer to profit after tax.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_40"><span class="font1">EBITDA</span> Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. Typically used as a measure to approximate the cash generated from operating activities.<a id="page_488"></a></p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_41"><span class="font1">Equity</span> Capital and reserves that belong to shareholders.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_42"><span class="font1">Equity crowdfunding</span> Source of funding in which the public invest money in return for an equity stake in companies. Investors are sought through online platforms.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_43"><span class="font1">Equity finance</span> Money (‘capital’) raised through the sale of shares to investors.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_44"><span class="font1">EPS</span> Earnings per share</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_45"><span class="font1">ERP</span> Enterprise resource planning. A system of integrated IT applications used to manage a business and automate many back-office functions.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_46"><span class="font1">External audit</span> Examination of a company’s financial statements carried out by independent auditors. Auditors are qualified professionals, appointed annually by shareholders to provide an independent opinion on whether the financial statements present a ‘true and fair’ view.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_47"><span class="font1">Financial risk</span> Volatility in profit due to high leverage.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_48"><span class="font1">Financial statements</span> A term used to describe a report that presents the financial performance and position of a business at a point in time. A set of financial statements includes a balance sheet, profit and loss, statement of cash flows and accompanying notes.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_49"><span class="font1">Financing activities</span> Changes to funding from either equity finance or debt finance, identified within the cash flow statement.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_50"><span class="font1">Fixed charge</span> Form of security in which particular assets are charged or held as security against debt finance.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_51"><span class="font1">Floating charge</span> Unsecured debt finance, i.e. not secured against particular assets.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_52"><span class="font1">Forecast</span> An estimation or prediction of an organisation’s future financial performance.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_53"><span class="font1">Fraud</span> Intentional deception with a view to gaining personal advantage.<a id="page_489"></a></p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_54"><span class="font1">Free cash flow</span> A performance measure calculated by deducting capital expenditure from operating cash flow. Used to measure how much money a company has left over to pay back debt, pay investors, or grow the business after operational costs have been paid for.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_55"><span class="font1">GAAP</span> Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_56"><span class="font1">Gearing</span> Measure of a company’s long-term financing structure. It compares a company’s borrowings (debt) with its funding from shareholders (equity).</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_57"><span class="font1">Going concern</span> A state of operating and financial capability in which a business is expected to continue operations into the future, for a period of at least 12 months from the date the accounts are signed.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_58"><span class="font1">Goodwill</span> Difference in value between what a company is worth and the value of its net assets. </p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_59"><span class="font1">Gross profit</span> Revenue less ‘cost of sales’ (direct costs).</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_60"><span class="font1">Gross profit margin</span> Gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_61"><span class="font1">Group</span> A parent company with at least one subsidiary.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_62"><span class="font1">Group accounts</span> Financial information of a group of companies presented as a single (consolidated) set of financial statements.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_63"><span class="font1">HMRC</span> Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_64"><span class="font1">IFRS</span> International Financial Reporting Standards</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_65"><span class="font1">Impairment</span> A permanent loss in the income-generating potential of an asset.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_66"><span class="font1">Incremental budget</span> A budget on the previous year’s budget plus or minus a set percentage.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_67"><span class="font1">Income</span> Sales recognised within an accounting period. Also referred to as sales revenue or turnover. In some accounting jurisdictions the term ‘net income’ is used instead of ‘profit’.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_68"><span class="font1">Initial public offering</span><span class="font1"> (IPO)</span> First sale of shares to outside investors by a private company.<a id="page_490"></a></p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_69"><span class="font1">Insolvency</span> Legal term used where a company is unable to repay the debts that it owes.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_70"><span class="font1">Intangible assets</span> Fixed assets that have no physical form such as development costs, patents, licenses, trademarks and software.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_71"><span class="font1">Interest cover</span> An indication of the affordability of debt to a company. Measures how many ‘times’ a company could afford to pay its interest charges.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_72"><span class="font1">Investing activities</span> Acquisition and disposal of long-term assets and other investments, identified within the cash flow statement.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_73"><span class="font1">IRR</span> Internal Rate of Return. The ‘rate of return’ of an investment.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_74"><span class="font1">Journals</span> Accounting adjustments to reflect timing differences.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_75"><span class="font1">Leverage</span> A method of financing that uses debt to amplify the rate of return (to equity holders) from an investment.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_76"><span class="font1">Margin</span> Profit as a percentage of the sales price.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_77"><span class="font1">Margin of safety</span> Amount by which sales have to fall before a product or service makes a loss.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_78"><span class="font1">Market to book ratio</span> Business value divided by net asset value.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_79"><span class="font1">Mark-up</span> Profit as a percentage of direct costs.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_80"><span class="font1">Materiality</span> A concept that refers to the importance of financial or non-financial information. Information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of the users of financial statements.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_81"><span class="font1">Mixed costs</span> Costs which include an element of both fixed and variable costs.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_82"><span class="font1">NBV</span> Net book value. Difference between cost and accumulated depreciation.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_83"><span class="font1">Net assets</span> Fixed assets + current assets – current liabilities – long-term liabilities.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_84"><span class="font1">Net working capital</span> Current assets – current liabilities.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_85"><a id="page_491"></a><span class="font1">Nominal ledger</span> Central repository for all accounting transactions.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_86"><span class="font1">Non-controlling interest</span> Proportion of a company not owned by a parent company, i.e. held by third parties. A non-controlling interest exists when a subsidiary is less than 100 per cent owned by its parent company. Also referred to as Minority Interest.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_87"><span class="font1">NPV</span> Net Present Value. The value or contribution of an investment measured using today’s value of money.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_88"><span class="font1">Operating activities</span> Principal revenue generating activities of the business, identified within the cash flow statement.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_89"><span class="font1">Operating profit</span> Revenue – ‘cost of sales’ and ‘operating expenses’.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_90"><span class="font1">Operating profit margin</span> Margin between revenue and all operating costs, both direct and indirect overheads.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_91"><span class="font1">Operating risk</span> Volatility in profit due to a high level of fixed costs compared to variable costs. Also known as <span class="italic">operational gearing</span>.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_92"><span class="font1">Opex</span> Expenses incurred in running a business. Also known as <span class="italic">operating expenditure</span> or <span class="italic">revenue expenditure</span>.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_93"><span class="font1">Payback period</span> A measure of the time required to pay back an investment.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_94"><span class="font1">PAYE</span> Pay As You Earn.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_95"><span class="font1">Pre-emption rights</span> Rights protecting existing shareholders against dilution of their percentage shareholding in a company.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_96"><span class="font1">Prepayments</span> Goods or services which have been invoiced and paid for, yet have not been received. Also known as <span class="italic">deferred expenses</span>.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_97"><span class="font1">Price customisation</span> Setting different prices for different customers based on their relative perceptions of value. Also known as ‘dynamic pricing’, ‘ demand yield pricing’ or price discrimination.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_98"><span class="font1">Private equity</span> Funds raised from institutional investors and private individuals typically used to ‘buy out’ shareholders of existing companies rather than providing a source of new finance for companies.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_99"><a id="page_492"></a><span class="font1">Provision</span> A liability that is uncertain in timing or amount. An obligation to pay is known to exist (or is probable) although the timing or exact amount is still unclear.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_100"><span class="font1">Prudence</span> An accounting principle of conservatism, which states that revenue should not be overestimated and expenses should not be underestimated.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_101"><span class="font1">Public offering</span> Regulated issue of shares to investors.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_102"><span class="font1">Retained profit</span> Residual or remaining profit (i.e. after all expenses) and after dividends have been paid to shareholders.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_103"><span class="font1">Return on investment</span> ‘Return’, typically profit generated, expressed as a percentage of the ‘investment’ required to run the business which generated the ‘return’.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_104"><span class="font1">Revenue</span> Sales recognised within an accounting period. Also referred to as sales revenue, turnover or income.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_105"><span class="font1">Revenue reserves</span> Accumulated profit retained in the business for future investment.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_106"><span class="font1">Rights issue</span> Shares issued to existing shareholders typically at a discount and in proportion to shareholders’ holding of existing shares.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_107"><span class="font1">Rolling budgets</span> Budgets which are revised on a regular basis, usually monthly or quarterly.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_108"><span class="font1">Secondary dealing</span> A transaction that occurs between investors where the proceeds of the sale go to the selling investor, not to the company that issued the shares.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_109"><span class="font1">Solvent</span> A business that is able to pay its long-term debts.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_110"><span class="font1">Statutory accounts</span> Accounts prepared and filed by all companies (except dormant companies) at Companies House (UK). See also <span class="italic">abridged accounts</span>.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_111"><span class="font1">Stock</span> Inventory comprising raw materials, work in progress and finished goods.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_112"><span class="font1">Substance over form</span> An accounting concept by which transactions are reflected in the financial statements according to their economic reality rather than their legal form.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_113"><a id="page_493"></a><span class="font1">TALCL</span> Total assets less current liabilities. Also known as <span class="italic">capital employed</span>.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_114"><span class="font1">Tangible fixed assets</span> Assets that possess physical substance.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_115"><span class="font1">Tax gap</span> Measure of the difference between the amount of tax collected by a country’s tax authorities and the amount that should be collected.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_116"><span class="font1">Trial balance</span> List of every account in the <span class="italic">nominal ledger</span> and its associated ‘balance’ (or total), categorised into profit and loss account and balance sheet items.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_117"><span class="font1">True and fair</span> Legal term interpreted to mean that accounts are free from material misstatements and faithfully represent the financial performance and position of an entity.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_118"><span class="font1">Turnover</span> Sales recognised within an accounting period. Also referred to as sales revenue or income.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_119"><span class="font1">VAT</span> Value added tax.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_120"><span class="font1">Venture capital</span><span class="font1"> (VC)</span> Funds raised from institutional investors and wealthy individuals available to invest in business. VCs typically buy minority stakes in businesses and expect a ‘seat on the board’.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_121"><span class="font1">WACC</span> Weighted average cost of capital. A weighted average cost of a company’s different sources of finance.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_122"><span class="font1">Whistleblowing</span> Reporting of wrong-doing (fraud, illegality or unethical practice) at an organisation.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_123"><span class="font1">Working capital</span> Difference between current assets (stock, debtors and cash) and current liabilities (creditors and bank overdrafts). </p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_124"><span class="font1">Working capital</span> <span class="font1">management</span> Working capital management is the ability to make cash available when needed and to make the best use of surplus cash.</p>
<p class="gloss" id="gloss_125"><span class="font1">Zero-based budgets</span> Budgets which are calculated from a ‘zero base’, i.e. starting from scratch.<a id="page_494"></a></p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>