<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>The Finance Book, 2nd Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/template.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>
<p class="chap_title"><a id="page_i"></a>Praise for <span class="italic">The Finance Book</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘This book is a rich and satisfying guide for non-finance professionals who wish to make informed financial decisions. The book tackles the complexities and challenges of finance with impeccable clarity, backed up with recent examples. A road map to enlightenment in finance!’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Yahya Alamari, Talent and Cultural Change Consultant; former HR Regional Director, KPMG MESA</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘I wish I had read this book earlier in my career! A very inviting and must-read book covering the financial concepts that all senior managers should know and told in a way that resonates with those who did not grow up in finance.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Rupert Brown, People Director – Digital, Virgin Media O2</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘As a developing clinical leader, the language of finance can sometimes be a barrier. The authors provide a succinct, easy-to-understand introduction to accounting concepts and terminology. This book will support aspiring leaders to access wider involvement and understanding in their business or organisation.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Dr Jason I. Broch, Clinical Chair, NHS Leeds CCG; Health &amp; Social Care Lead, Yorkshire &amp; Humber Health and Care Record; Partner, Oakwood Lane Medical Practice</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘This book is different. It is neither traditional finance nor traditional accounting. It does not attempt to provide a theoretical foundation for the subject but offers nuggets of practical wisdom in a way that distils the authors’ decades of experience in the field. The book is clear, immediate, exhaustive and (dare I say it) fun to read – unburdened by theory, down to earth, succinct and practical. Middle or senior management will find it useful, if not essential, in their day-to-day activities.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Emeritus Professor Robert Cressy, University of Birmingham, UK</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘I have adopted</span> The Finance Book <span class="italic">for students studying my MBA financial management module and have no hesitation in recommending this text to all those who need to understand the core financial aspects of business operations.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Dr David Fairclough, Borlace Management Ltd</p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_ii"></a><span class="italic">‘A refreshingly easy “pick up and read” book, providing straightforward explanations of potentially complex terms and aspects of finance. A key read for those seeking to understand the fundamentals of finance.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Shirley Fyfe, lead facilitator and trainer, Director, Kinsbourne Consulting Limited</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘Invaluable knowledge and context for anyone taking a non-executive directorship or trustee type role, who doesn’t have a finance background. Fantastic reference and reminder for anyone who does!’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Ceri Humphrey, Chair, Programme Management Committee of the Hertfordshire Local Economic Partnership</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘Having never studied finance and accounting, I found this book an invaluable reference. It has helped me to professionalise the running of my own business. I only wish I had read this at the start of my entrepreneurial journey.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Karim Harbott, entrepreneur, non-executive director and author of <span class="italic">The 6 Enablers of Business Agility</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘This is an excellent guide to understanding finance. It is very accessible for anyone seeking to understand what financial information is telling them. I recommend this book for professional development in finance.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Paul Jennings, Senior Lecturer in Accounting, University of Winchester (UK); visiting Professor, Schmalkalden University of Applied Sciences (Germany)</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘I found the book easy to digest, simple to read and full of real-life concepts and examples. Each chapter has been designed thoughtfully making it perfect for dipping in and out alongside a busy schedule.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Nabilah Khan, BT Learning and Development Manager (Enterprise)</p>
<p class="noindent">‘The Finance Book <span class="italic">is well written, yet concise. Professionals lacking in financial knowledge will find it to be an invaluable reference guide.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Peter Keeley, Lecturer, West London/New City College</p>
<p class="noindent">‘The Finance Book <span class="italic">is a practical guide that deciphers finance and will transform your financial awareness and confidence. A must read that will become your go to finance Rosetta Stone.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Jonathan Levy, ICAEW Director, Product Development</p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_iii"></a><span class="italic">‘I wish this book was available before I joined my first board! This is a must-read for any non-finance professional and/or aspiring corporate director; I highly recommend it!’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Diana Markaki - Bartholdi, International M&amp;A lawyer; CEO of the Boardroom</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘The reflection sections are a brilliant addition to an already great finance book. This second edition will most certainly be sat on the desks of each of my team.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Rebecca Martin, Head of Learning Innovation, Professional Body (healthcare sector)</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘As a non-financial managing director, I would say this is a must have in your top right-hand draw to help any future board members or accounting students who want to stay ahead of the curve on finance and concentrate on their day job, which could be anything from running a start-up to managing a much bigger organisation.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Richard Offord, Managing Director, VolkerFitzpatrick</p>
<p class="noindent">‘The Finance Book <span class="italic">offers what very few resources do, namely, a comprehensive guide to finance that is accessible in a succinct and highly coherent manner.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Dimitrios Perdikoulis, Head of Operations, Evolution Partners, Hong Kong</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘Clear, simple, easy to follow and a great overview of a broad range of finance topics for non-financial managers.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Nick Page, Chief Operations Officer, Oxford Biomedica (UK) Ltd</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘Clear structure, easy to understand and perfect for dipping in and out. I use it as a regular reference guide, and it’s allowed me to better communicate with my finance colleagues. Highly recommend!’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Simon Reeve, Commercial Director, Bark Digital</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘This is an invaluable book for professionals who need a working understanding of accounting and finance without the benefit of formal training. It’s like having a friendly accountant on speed dial whenever you come across something you don’t understand or remember.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Saul Sender, Partner, Mishcon de Reya LLP</p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_iv"></a><span class="italic">‘The first edition of this comprehensive book added great value to an accompanying workshop for a talent cohort. It enabled our participants to have a reference aid to come back to regarding the language of finance. Furthermore, it enhanced their comprehension of the interaction between business and finance, one of our key learning objectives. I would highly recommend the enhanced second edition of this book to anyone in or outside of a finance role.’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Nikki Sloan, Director Learning and Development, EMEA, Russia and Australia (Pharmaceuticals)</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="italic">‘I never thought I would like finance but that was purely because I just never understood it well. This book is a true eyeopener, converting the puzzle of numbers and finance terms into a light breeze of finance. Thank you for making me love finance!’</span></p>
<p class="aut">Madelon Sweers, Head of Marketing NL bij Dept Agency, Netherlands</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>