<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exam Ref PL-300 Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780137901159.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<p class="copy-title" id="copyright"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_ii"></span>Exam Ref PL-300 Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst</p>
<p class="copya">Published with the authorization of Microsoft Corporation by: Pearson Education, Inc.</p>
<p class="copy">Copyright © 2023 by Pearson Education Inc.</p>
<p class="copy">All rights reserved. This publication is protected by copyright, and permission must be obtained from the publisher prior to any prohibited reproduction, storage in a retrieval system, or transmission in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or likewise. For information regarding permissions, request forms, and the appropriate contacts within the Pearson Education Global Rights &amp; Permissions Department, please visit www.pearson.com/permissions.</p>
<p class="copy">No patent liability is assumed with respect to the use of the information contained herein. Although every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher and author assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. Nor is any liability assumed for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.</p>
<p class="copy">ISBN-13: 978-0-13-790123-4</p>
<p class="copya">ISBN-10: 0-13-790123-2</p>
<p class="copy">Library of Congress Control Number:  2022938757</p>
<p class="copy"><strong><code>ScoutAutomatedPrintCode</code></strong></p>
<p class="copy-title1">TRADEMARKS</p>
<p class="copya">Microsoft and the trademarks listed at <a href="http://www.microsoft.com">http://www.microsoft.com</a> on the “Trademarks” webpage are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies. All other marks are property of their respective owners.</p>
<p class="copy-title1">WARNING AND DISCLAIMER</p>
<p class="copya">Every effort has been made to make this book as complete and as accurate as possible, but no warranty or fitness is implied. The information provided is on an “as is” basis. The author, the publisher, and Microsoft Corporation shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to any loss or damages arising from the information contained in this book or from the use of the programs accompanying it.</p>
<p class="copy-title1">SPECIAL SALES</p>
<p class="copya">For information about buying this title in bulk quantities, or for special sales opportunities (which may include electronic versions; custom cover designs; and content particular to your business, training goals, marketing focus, or branding interests), please contact our corporate sales department at corpsales@pearsoned.com or (800) 382-3419.</p>
<p class="copy">For government sales inquiries, please contact governmentsales@pearsoned.com.</p>
<p class="copya">For questions about sales outside the U.S., please contact intlcs@pearson.com.</p>
<p class="copy-b">EDITOR-IN-CHIEF</p>
<p class="copya">Brett Bartow</p>
<p class="copy-b">EXECUTIVE EDITOR</p>
<p class="copya">Loretta Yates</p>
<p class="copy-b">SPONSORING EDITOR</p>
<p class="copya">Charvi Arora</p>
<p class="copy-b">DEVELOPMENT EDITOR</p>
<p class="copya">Songlin Qiu</p>
<p class="copy-b">MANAGING EDITOR</p>
<p class="copya">Sandra Schroeder</p>
<p class="copy-b">SENIOR PROJECT EDITOR</p>
<p class="copya">Tracey Croom</p>
<p class="copy-b">COPY EDITOR</p>
<p class="copya">Elizabeth Welch</p>
<p class="copy-b">INDEXER</p>
<p class="copya">Cheryl Lenser</p>
<p class="copy-b">PROOFREADER</p>
<p class="copya">Barbara Mack</p>
<p class="copy-b">TECHNICAL EDITOR</p>
<p class="copya">Owen Auger</p>
<p class="copy-b">EDITORIAL ASSISTANT</p>
<p class="copya">Cindy Teeters</p>
<p class="copy-b">COVER DESIGNER</p>
<p class="copya">Twist Creative, Seattle</p>
<p class="copy-b">COMPOSITOR</p>
<p class="copya">codeMantra</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>