<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Exam Ref PL-300 Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780137901159.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2f1" id="pref02"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xi"></span>Introduction</h2>
<p class="noindent">Exam PL-300 focuses on using Microsoft Power BI for data analysis. About one-fourth of the exam covers data preparation, which includes getting data from different data sources, as well as cleaning, transforming, and loading the data. Approximately one-third of the questions are related to data modeling: designing, developing, and optimizing a data model. Another one-third of the book covers the skills necessary to visualize and analyze data, such as creating reports and dashboards, as well as performing advanced analysis. The remainder of the book discusses how to manage datasets and workspaces in the Power BI service.</p>
<p class="indent">This exam is intended for data analysts, business intelligence professionals, and report creators who are seeking to validate their skills and knowledge in analyzing data with Power BI. Candidates should be familiar with how to get, model, and visualize data in Power BI Desktop, as well as share reports with other people.</p>
<p class="indent">This book covers every major topic area found on the exam, but it does not cover every exam question. Only the Microsoft exam team has access to the exam questions, and Microsoft regularly adds new questions to the exam, making it impossible to cover specific questions. You should consider this book a supplement to your relevant real-world experience and other study materials. If you encounter a topic in this book that you do not feel completely comfortable with, use the “Need more review?” links you'll find in the text to find more information and take the time to research and study the topic. Great information is available on <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com">https://docs.microsoft.com</a></p>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev1sec1">Organization of this book</h3>
<p class="noindent">This book is organized by the “Skills measured” list published for the exam. The “Skills measured” list is available for each exam on the Microsoft Learn website: <a href="http://microsoft.com">http://microsoft.com</a> learn. Each chapter in this book corresponds to a major topic area in the list, and the technical tasks in each topic area determine a chapter’s organization. If an exam covers six major topic areas, for example, the book will contain six chapters.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev1sec2">Preparing for the exam</h3>
<p class="noindent">Microsoft certification exams are a great way to build your résumé and let the world know about your level of expertise. Certification exams validate your on-the-job experience and product knowledge. Although there is no substitute for on-the-job experience, preparation through study and hands-on practice can help you prepare for the exam. This book is <em>not</em> designed to teach you new skills.</p>
<p class="indent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xii"></span>We recommend that you augment your exam preparation plan by using a combination of available study materials and courses. For example, you might use the Exam Ref and another study guide for your ”at home” preparation and take a Microsoft Official Curriculum course for the classroom experience. Choose the combination that you think works best for you. Learn more about available classroom training and find free online courses and live events at <em><a href="http://microsoft.com/learn">http://microsoft.com/learn</a></em>. Microsoft Official Practice Tests are available for many exams at <em><a href="http://aka.ms/practicetests">http://aka.ms/practicetests</a></em>.</p>
<p class="indent">Note that this Exam Ref is based on publicly available information about the exam and the author’s experience. To safeguard the integrity of the exam, authors do not have access to the live exam.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev1sec3">Microsoft certifications</h3>
<p class="noindent">Microsoft certifications distinguish you by proving your command of a broad set of skills and experience with current Microsoft products and technologies. The exams and corresponding certifications are developed to validate your mastery of critical competencies as you design and develop, or implement and support, solutions with Microsoft products and technologies both on-premises and in the cloud. Certification brings a variety of benefits to the individual and to employers and organizations.</p>
<div class="note">
<p class="note-title"><span class="gray"><em>More Info</em></span> All Microsoft Certifications</p>
<p class="note-para">For information about Microsoft certifications, including a full list of available certifications, go to <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/learn">http://www.microsoft.com/learn</a>.</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent">Check back often to see what is new!</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev1sec4">Quick access to online references</h3>
<p class="noindent">Throughout this book are addresses to webpages that the author has recommended you visit for more information. Some of these links can be very long and painstaking to type, so we’ve shortened them for you to make them easier to visit. We’ve also compiled them into a single list that readers of the print edition can refer to while they read.</p>
<p class="indent">Download the list at <em><a href="http://MicrosoftPressStore.com/ExamRefPL300/downloads">MicrosoftPressStore.com/ExamRefPL300/downloads</a></em></p>
<p class="indent">The URLs are organized by chapter and heading. Every time you come across a URL in the book, find the hyperlink in the list to go directly to the webpage.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev1sec5"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xiii"></span>Errata, updates, &amp; book support</h3>
<p class="noindent">We’ve made every effort to ensure the accuracy of this book and its companion content. You can access updates to this book—in the form of a list of submitted errata and their related corrections—at:</p>
<p class="indentt"><em><a href="http://MicrosoftPressStore.com/ExamRefPL300/errata">MicrosoftPressStore.com/ExamRefPL300/errata</a></em></p>
<p class="indentt">If you discover an error that is not already listed, please submit it to us at the same page.</p>
<p class="indentt">For additional book support and information, please visit <em><a href="http://MicrosoftPressStore.com/Support">MicrosoftPressStore.com/Support</a></em>.</p>
<p class="indentt">Please note that product support for Microsoft software and hardware is not offered through the previous addresses. For help with Microsoft software or hardware, go to <em><a href="http://support.microsoft.com">http://support.microsoft.com</a></em>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref02lev1sec6">Stay in touch</h3>
<p class="noindent">Let’s keep the conversation going! We’re on Twitter: <em><a href="http://twitter.com/MicrosoftPress">http://twitter.com/MicrosoftPress</a></em>.</p>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>