<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Guide</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style-JRserifv5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div id="_idContainer244">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-284"><a id="_idTextAnchor295"></a>Appendix: Practice Question Answers</h1>
			<p>Here, you can find the answers to all of the practice questions found at the end of each chapter.</p>
			<ul>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 1, Overview of Power BI and the PL-300 Exam</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 2, Connecting to Data Sources</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 3, Profiling the Data</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 4, Cleansing, Transforming, and Shaping Data</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 5, Designing a Data Model</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 6, Using Data Model Advanced Features</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 7, Creating Measures Using DAX</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 8, Optimizing Model Performance</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 9, Creating Reports</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 10, Creating Dashboards</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 11, Enhancing Reports</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 12, Exposing Insights from Data</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 13, Performing Advanced Analytics</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 14, Managing Workspaces</em></li>
				<li><em class="italic">Chapter 15, Managing Datasets</em></li>
			</ul>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-285"><a id="_idTextAnchor296"></a>Chapter 1, Overview of Power BI and the PL-300 Exam</h1>
			<ol>
				<li>What does the "BI" in Power BI stands for what?<ol><li>Business information</li><li>Bidirectional information</li><li><strong class="bold">Business intelligence</strong></li><li>Big industry</li></ol></li>
				<li>The Power BI service allows you to:<ol><li>Download software allowing you to explore data and create reports.</li><li>Create spreadsheets that calculate values based on formulas.</li><li>Author presentations using the slideshow concept.</li><li><strong class="bold">Share reports dashboards and apps with other users.</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>How often must Microsoft exams be renewed?<ol><li>Never, they last forever.</li><li>Every 6 months.</li><li><strong class="bold">Every 2 years.</strong></li><li>Every 4 years.</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-286"><a id="_idTextAnchor297"></a>Chapter 2, Connecting to Data Sources</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Which data sources can Power BI connect to?<ol><li>Only local, on-premises data sources</li><li><strong class="bold">On-premises, cloud, and SaaS sources</strong></li><li>Only SaaS sources</li><li>On-premises and cloud sources</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are some ways to tune the performance of Power BI queries?<ol><li>Running a shrink on the data model</li><li><strong class="bold">Importing only the required data</strong></li><li>Zipping the PBIX file</li><li>Removing all queries</li></ol></li>
				<li>XMLA is the protocol used for which software or service?<ol><li><strong class="bold">Microsoft Analysis Services</strong></li><li>Microsoft Excel</li><li>Azure Synapse Analytics</li><li>Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-287"><a id="_idTextAnchor298"></a>Chapter 3, Profiling the Data</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Which tool is used to transform data?<ol><li>Power Edit</li><li>Transform Data</li><li>Query Tool</li><li><strong class="bold">Power Query</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>By default, the Power Query Editor will use how many rows of data?<ol><li>100 rows</li><li><strong class="bold">1,000 rows</strong></li><li>2,000 rows</li><li>Entire dataset</li></ol></li>
				<li>Column distribution view can be enabled by selecting the checkbox under which tab on the ribbon?<ol><li>Tools</li><li>Statistics</li><li><strong class="bold">View</strong></li><li>Home</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-288"><a id="_idTextAnchor299"></a>Chapter 4, Cleansing, Transforming, and Shaping Data</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">If you need to transform a column by adding a prefix to every record, which transform would you use?<ol><li>Format</li><li>Pivot</li><li><strong class="bold">Replace Values</strong></li><li>Parse</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is used to combine data from multiple queries or tables?<ol><li><strong class="bold">Merge query</strong></li><li>Join query</li><li>Append query</li><li>Left Outer query</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are some of the ways Power BI can be used to enrich data using AI?<ol><li>Linear regression, language detection, key phrase extraction, and sentiment analysis</li><li>Language detection, key phrase extraction, and sentiment analysis</li><li>Language detection and key phrase extraction</li><li><strong class="bold">Image tagging, key phrase extraction, language detection, and sentiment analysis</strong></li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-289"><a id="_idTextAnchor300"></a>Chapter 5, Designing a Data Model</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Which type of table relationship describes a scenario where each unique value in one table occurs only once in another table?<ol><li>Many-to-many</li><li><strong class="bold">One-to-one</strong></li><li>One-to-many</li><li>Unique relationship</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is the DAX formula needed to build a quick measure to calculate the weighted average per category?<ol><li><strong class="source-inline">AVG(CATEGORY)</strong>.</li><li><strong class="source-inline">AVGW(CATEGORY)</strong>.</li><li><strong class="source-inline">AVERAGE([QUERY].[CATEGORY])</strong>.</li><li><strong class="bold">DAX isn't needed for a quick measure.</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>If your data has sales by store by day, are you able to find sales by hour?<ol><li>No.</li><li>Yes.</li><li><strong class="bold">Sort of, it will be averaged by store by day.</strong></li><li>Sort of, it will be averaged by store by hour.</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-290"><a id="_idTextAnchor301"></a>Chapter 6, Using Data Model Advanced Features</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Which of the following does Power BI use as the default sensitivity labels?<ol><li>Top secret, secret, official, public</li><li>Confidential, official, public</li><li>Confidential, general, public</li><li><strong class="bold">Whatever your organization uses for MIP sensitivity labels</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>If the data model for sales data includes columns for Country, State, and Postal code, what are some potential ways we can implement row-level security to filter data?<ol><li>Use a DAX expression to filter by Country, State, or Postal code.</li><li>Use a DAX expression to filter by State or Postal code.</li><li>Use a DAX expression to filter by Country or State.</li><li><strong class="bold">Use a security filter by Country.</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>What kind of model (or YAML file) is used for domain-specific language natural-language querying in Power BI?<ol><li>Data model</li><li>Super model</li><li><strong class="bold">Linguistic model</strong></li><li>Dimensional model</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-291"><a id="_idTextAnchor302"></a>Chapter 7, Creating Measures Using DAX</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">What are quick measures?<ol><li>Measures that move around the screen quickly</li><li><strong class="bold">Calculated fields that can be added without coding</strong></li><li>Measures that can quickly be added by writing DAX code</li><li>Custom visuals added from Microsoft AppSource</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is used to evaluate an expression in the context of a modified filter?<ol><li><strong class="source-inline">COMPUTE</strong></li><li><strong class="source-inline">APPRAISE</strong></li><li><strong class="source-inline">SUM</strong></li><li><strong class="bold">CALCULATE</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>If you only have the <strong class="source-inline">Sales Amount</strong> and <strong class="source-inline">Total Product Cost</strong> fields, which function would be best to use to calculate the sum of margin?<ol><li><strong class="bold">SUMX</strong></li><li><strong class="source-inline">MARGIN</strong></li><li><strong class="source-inline">DISTINCTCOUNT</strong></li><li><strong class="source-inline">FILTER</strong></li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-292"><a id="_idTextAnchor303"></a>Chapter 8, Optimizing Model Performance</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Which technique will increase the performance of data models?<ol><li>Adding more memory to Power BI Desktop</li><li>Changing the data source to Microsoft Excel</li><li>Publishing reports to Power BI Premium</li><li><strong class="bold">Removing unnecessary data from the data model</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>Aggregating data will do what?<ol><li><strong class="bold">Reduce the number of columns and rows.</strong></li><li>Reduce the number of columns only.</li><li>Increase the number of rows only.</li><li>Both b and c</li></ol></li>
				<li>Filtering in a Power BI report can be applied to what?<ol><li><strong class="bold">All pages in a report file, a single page, only a visual.</strong></li><li>Filtering can only be applied to visuals.</li><li>A single page or a visual.</li><li>A dashboard, a page, or a visual.</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which tool or capability should be used to determine how much of a query duration uses the formula engine or the storage engine?<ol><li>Query diagnostics</li><li>Query analytics </li><li><strong class="bold">DAX Studio</strong></li><li>Tabular Editor</li></ol></li>
				<li>When using query diagnostics, which kind of diagnostics should be used to analyze multiple steps in a query?<ol><li>Multiple-step diagnostics</li><li>Session diagnostics</li><li><strong class="bold">Step diagnostics</strong></li><li>Model diagnostics</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-293"><a id="_idTextAnchor304"></a>Chapter 9, Creating Reports</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Power BI reports can use custom visuals added from what resource?<ol><li><strong class="bold">Microsoft AppSource</strong></li><li>Microsoft Store</li><li>Power BI VisualStore</li><li>Office 365 templates</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which visual makes the most sense to use for geographical information?<ol><li>Clustered bar chart</li><li>Stacked bar chart</li><li>Scatter chart</li><li><strong class="bold">Map</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>If you want to make the color of data change based on its value, what feature will you use?<ol><li>The Edit tab</li><li><strong class="bold">Conditional formatting</strong></li><li>Bold formatting</li><li>Conditional settings</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-294"><a id="_idTextAnchor305"></a>Chapter 10, Creating Dashboards</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Dashboards can contain what type of content?<ol><li>Report visuals, web content, images, text, video, and streaming data</li><li>Report visuals, report pages, images, text, video, and streaming data</li><li>Report visuals, report pages, web content, images, text, and video</li><li><strong class="bold">Report visuals, report pages, web content, images, text, video, and streaming data</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>What is the shortest frequency for automatic dashboard tile refresh of cached data for pinned visuals?<ol><li>30 minutes</li><li>15 minutes</li><li>5 minutes</li><li><strong class="bold">1 hour</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>Dashboards can be optimized for viewing on what devices?<ol><li>Web and desktop</li><li>Web only</li><li>Web, iOS, Android, and Blackberry</li><li><strong class="bold">Web and mobile</strong></li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-295"><a id="_idTextAnchor306"></a>Chapter 11, Enhancing Reports</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Configuring a saved configuration of a report page with preset filtering and sorting is called what?<ol><li>Save points</li><li>Favorites</li><li><strong class="bold">Bookmarks</strong></li><li>Saved view</li></ol></li>
				<li>Navigation can be configured in a report using what item from the Insert tab on the ribbon?<ol><li>New visual</li><li>Paginated report</li><li>New page</li><li><strong class="bold">Buttons</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>When designing a report for viewing on a mobile device, what view is used?<ol><li><strong class="bold">Mobile layout</strong></li><li>App view</li><li>Android viewer</li><li>Web layout</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-296"><a id="_idTextAnchor307"></a>Chapter 12, Exposing Insights from Data</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">The built-in report filters can be used to filter data where?<ol><li>Only on the current report page</li><li>Only on the selected report visual</li><li>On the current report page or the selected visual</li><li><strong class="bold">On the current report page, the selected visual, or all pages in the PBIX file</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>Responsive slicers must have which configuration property set? <ol><li>Responsive enabled and horizontal orientation</li><li><strong class="bold">Responsive enabled</strong></li><li>Responsive enabled and vertical orientation</li><li>Responsive enabled and dynamic orientation</li></ol></li>
				<li>What type of lines can be added to a visual using the Analytics pane?<ol><li>Trend, median, min, max, average, and constant</li><li>Trend, median, min, max, average, and standard deviation</li><li>Trend, median, min, max, average, constant, and <em class="italic">x</em>- and/or <em class="italic">y</em>-axis constant</li><li><strong class="bold">Trend, median, min, max, average, constant, percentile, and x- and/or y-axis constant</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>Symmetry shading can be added to what kind of visual?<ol><li>Line </li><li><strong class="bold">Scatter chart</strong></li><li>Clustered bar</li><li>Clustered column</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-297"><a id="_idTextAnchor308"></a>Chapter 13, Performing Advanced Analytics</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">The key influencers visualization can be used to discover what about your data?<ol><li><strong class="bold">Understand relationships between fields in your data model.</strong></li><li>Aggregate numeric data in your data model.</li><li>Generate text summaries of insights.</li><li>How many social media followers you have.</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which type of visual is often used with time series analysis?<ol><li><strong class="bold">Gantt chart</strong></li><li>Pie chart</li><li>Map visual</li><li>Decomposition tree</li></ol></li>
				<li>When there are data values that don't fit well with other values, your data may contain what?<ol><li>Errors</li><li>Bad records</li><li><strong class="bold">Outliers</strong></li><li>Empty records</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-298"><a id="_idTextAnchor309"></a>Chapter 14, Managing Workspaces</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Advanced capabilities of Power BI may require a licensed version of Power BI. Licensed versions of Power BI include:<ol><li>Premium and Advanced</li><li>Plus and Pro</li><li>Power BI 2022</li><li><strong class="bold">Pro and Premium</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>Which workspace role has permissions to delete a workspace?<ol><li>Owner</li><li><strong class="bold">Admin</strong></li><li>Member</li><li>Contributor</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which stages are used in Power BI deployment pipelines?<ol><li>Development and production</li><li><strong class="bold">Development, test, and production</strong></li><li>Development, test, preproduction, and production</li><li>Development, integration testing, user acceptance testing, and production</li></ol></li>
				<li>How many days of history will usage metrics reporting show?<ol><li>90</li><li>60</li><li><strong class="bold">30</strong></li><li>Unlimited</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-299"><a id="_idTextAnchor310"></a>Chapter 15, Managing Datasets</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">If I need to use an on-premises SQL Server as a source for my report that will use an import query of a dataset, what should I do? <ol><li>You must move all of your data to Azure.</li><li>This is not possible.</li><li>Use a self-hosted integration runtime.</li><li><strong class="bold">Use an on-premises data gateway.</strong></li></ol></li>
				<li>How many times per day can a dataset refresh be scheduled in a Premium workspace?<ol><li>24</li><li><strong class="bold">48</strong></li><li>96</li><li>12</li></ol></li>
				<li>Row-level security only applies to users who have workspace access at what level?<ol><li>Member</li><li>Admin</li><li><strong class="bold">Viewer</strong></li><li>All of the above</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>