<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Guide</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style-JRserifv5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div id="_idContainer243">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-278"><em class="italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor288"></a>Chapter 16</em>: Practice Exams</h1>
			<p>This chapter contains two practice tests that will help you better understand whether you are ready to take the exam. The sample exam questions and answers will give you the confidence you need to sit the exam. Please remember to pick the best answer for each question or statement.</p>
			<p>This chapter comprises the following sections:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Practice test 1</li>
				<li>Practice test 2</li>
				<li>Answer key for practice tests 1 and 2</li>
			</ul>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-279"><a id="_idTextAnchor289"></a>Practice test 1</h1>
			<ol>
				<li>When a selected visual is shown over the entire canvas, what is this feature called?<ol><li>Enhanced mode</li><li>Expanded mode</li><li>Focus mode</li><li>Fullscreen mode</li></ol></li>
				<li>If a report has slicers and a clustered column chart with a trend line, how often will the trend line update?<ol><li>When data is refreshed</li><li>When a new visual is added</li><li>When a slicer or filter changes or when data is refreshed</li><li>When a filter is applied</li></ol></li>
				<li>To understand the top key influencers of a specific amount, such as for the order quantity to be exactly 5, which analysis type would you need to use in the key influencers visual?<ol><li>Numeric</li><li>Statistical</li><li>Categorical</li><li>Continuous</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI is used by:<ol><li>Only enterprise organizations</li><li>Only university students</li><li>A variety of enterprise and citizen developers</li><li>Only cutting-edge developers</li></ol></li>
				<li>To sort records by a whole number-type column from lowest to highest, what operation do you need to use?<ol><li>Sort low to high</li><li>Sort ascending</li><li>Sort descending</li><li>Sort alphabetical</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are the required parameters of the RANKX function?<ol><li>Table, expression</li><li>Table, expression, order</li><li>Value, order</li><li>Table, order</li></ol></li>
				<li>To use responsive slicers, the slicer must contain:<ol><li>A date range</li><li>A time range</li><li>Relative dates</li><li>A selection list of values</li></ol></li>
				<li>What four possible cardinalities does Power BI have?<ol><li>Many-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-some, and one-to-one</li><li>Many-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, and one-to-one</li><li>Many-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, and one-to-two</li><li>Many-to-two, one-to-many, many-to-many, and one-to-one</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which visual is the most similar representation of tabular data to a database table?<ol><li>Stacked bar chart</li><li>Clustered column chart</li><li>Table visual</li><li>Pie chart</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which page do you set drillthrough up on?<ol><li>The starting page</li><li>The target page</li><li>The Power BI admin portal</li><li>The workspace settings</li></ol></li>
				<li>To implement row-level security, what needs to be applied to the table?<ol><li>M query</li><li>WHERE clause</li><li>DAX expression</li><li>SQL query</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are the three stages supported by deployment pipelines?<ol><li>Training, test, and production</li><li>Training, integration testing, and production</li><li>Development, test, and production</li><li>Development, UAT, and production</li></ol></li>
				<li>Using Power BI will be familiar for users of which service?<ol><li>Microsoft Word</li><li>Adobe Photoshop</li><li>Microsoft Edge</li><li>Microsoft Excel</li></ol></li>
				<li>To bring data together from multiple queries where the structure is different but there are matching columns from both tables, we use:<ol><li>A left outer join query</li><li>A right outer join query</li><li>An append query</li><li>A merge query</li></ol></li>
				<li>The three types of geographical map visuals are:<ol><li>Map, filled map, and GIS map</li><li>Map, filled map, and ArcGIS map</li><li>Map, colored map, and GIS map</li><li>Google Maps, Apple Maps, and Bing Maps</li></ol></li>
				<li>To change the data type of a column in the Power Query Editor, what do you need to use?<ol><li>Type selector under the Files tab</li><li>Data type selector under the Queries tab</li><li>Type selector under the Data tab</li><li>Data type selector under the Transform tab</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which option is a way to reduce the data size?<ol><li>Multiplication</li><li>Aggregation</li><li>Duplication</li><li>Miniaturization</li></ol></li>
				<li>Why is it important to cleanse and transform data?<ol><li>Date representations in datasets might be different.</li><li>Data types of the matching columns might be different in datasets you need to merge.</li><li>Datasets you need to merge might require creating columns.</li><li>All of the above.</li></ol></li>
				<li>If your data contains demographic data about customers and you want to understand buying habits for certain age ranges, what technique would you use to analyze your data?<ol><li>Merging</li><li>Ranging</li><li>Aging</li><li>Binning</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI uses two engines. What are the names of these two engines?<ol><li>Calculation and storage</li><li>Formula and persistence</li><li>Formula and storage</li><li>V8 and diesel</li></ol></li>
				<li>The auto date/time option in the data load options will do what?<ol><li>Automatically save the current date and time to your report.</li><li>Automatically add dates to all tables loaded.</li><li>Create a hidden date hierarchy table.</li><li>Create a hidden timetable.</li></ol></li>
				<li>Visuals from published reports can be added to a dashboard with a process called:<ol><li>Glueing</li><li>Pinning</li><li>Copy and paste</li><li>Sharing</li></ol></li>
				<li>What does DAX stand for?<ol><li>DatabAses for eXcel</li><li>Data Advanced Expressions</li><li>Data Analysis for "X"</li><li>Data Analysis eXpressions</li></ol></li>
				<li>To view descriptive statistical information about each column of your data, which tool do you need to use?<ol><li>Column information under the Data tab</li><li>Column statistics under the View tab</li><li>Column profile under the View tab</li><li>Column profile under the Data tab</li></ol></li>
				<li>By default, the Power Query Editor uses how many rows of data?<ol><li>All of the data</li><li>The first 100 rows</li><li>The first 500 rows</li><li>The first 1,000 rows</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI content and datasets are published to what?<ol><li>A database</li><li>A workspace</li><li>An environment</li><li>A workbench</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which sets of methods are valid ways the Power Query Editor can add columns?<ol><li>Column from Example, Custom Column, and Key Column</li><li>Column from Example, Custom Column, and Index Column</li><li>Column from Example, Invoke Custom Function, and IF/THEN Column</li><li>Column from Example, Custom Column, and Column from Join</li></ol></li>
				<li>What methods can be used with AI to generate data using the Power Query Editor?<ol><li>Language detection, language translation, sentiment analysis, and image tagging</li><li>Language detection, key phrase extraction, mind reading, and image tagging</li><li>Language detection, key phrase extraction, sentiment analysis, and image tagging</li><li>Language detection, key phrase extraction, sentiment analysis, and text to speech</li></ol></li>
				<li>Scheduled data refreshes take place within a time window you set in the service. What is the length of the time window?<ol><li>5 minutes</li><li>10 minutes</li><li>15 minutes</li><li>30 minutes</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which data sources can Power BI can connect to?<ol><li>Databases</li><li>Filesystems</li><li>Software-as-a-service providers</li><li>All of the above</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI is designed to work with:<ol><li>Many data sources</li><li>Only one data source</li><li>Only two data sources</li><li>One or two data sources</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which is an example of a non-additive measure?<ol><li>Percent increase</li><li>Unit price</li><li>Sales amount</li><li>Purchase order total</li></ol></li>
				<li>Direct query performance optimization often includes:<ol><li>Reducing the size of data in the data model and indexing data in the data model</li><li>Indexes on the source data, dimension-to-fact table key integrity, materializing data and dates, and distributed tables for MPP databases</li><li>Only considering distributed tables for MPP databases</li><li>Indexing the source files in a search engine</li></ol></li>
				<li>The usage metrics report capability in Power BI includes pre-built reports with what information?<ol><li>Premium Per User and Per Capacity usage, report usage, report performance, and report list</li><li>Premium Per User capacity usage, report usage, report performance, and report list</li><li>Report usage, report performance, and report list</li><li>Report usage and report performance</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which mode needs to be installed for multiple users to access on-premises data sources?<ol><li>Personal mode on-premises data gateway</li><li>Multi-user mode on-premises data gateway</li><li>Standard mode on-premises data gateway</li><li>Enterprise mode on-premises data gateway</li></ol></li>
				<li>To change the colors used on a visual, which section do you need to change?<ol><li>Change your visual.</li><li>Edit your visual.</li><li>Format your visual.</li><li>Color your visual.</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is the recommended tool for optimizing measures?<ol><li>Microsoft Edge</li><li>Visual Studio Code</li><li>DAX Studio</li><li>Power Query Editor</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI supports what kind of visuals?<ol><li>Only built-in</li><li>Only custom</li><li>Built-in and open source</li><li>Built-in and custom</li></ol></li>
				<li>It is often hard for businesses to do what?<ol><li>Know how much they will pay for Power BI.</li><li>Use Power BI to understand their data.</li><li>Pay their employees what they are worth.</li><li>See a complete picture of what is happening across the enterprise.</li></ol></li>
				<li>When using sensitivity labels in Power BI, when does downstream inheritance happen?<ol><li>When downstream data becomes unusable</li><li>When downstream data is made available for everyone to use</li><li>When the same sensitivity labels are applied to downstream data products</li><li>When the same sensitivity labels are applied to all data products</li></ol></li>
				<li>The filtering pane allows filtering by:<ol><li>Visual and page</li><li>Visual, page, and all pages</li><li>Visual, page, all pages, and reports</li><li>Visual, page, all pages, and dashboards</li></ol></li>
				<li>To update data in a Power BI dataset, what capability must you use?<ol><li>Data reload</li><li>Update dataset</li><li>Update model</li><li>Data refresh</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is the default canvas type for a report?<ol><li>4:3</li><li>3:2</li><li>10:5</li><li>16:9</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are two common types of encoding used by Power BI to compress data?<ol><li>Value and distinct</li><li>Value and hash</li><li>Value and <a id="_idTextAnchor290"></a>Snappy</li><li>Snappy and ZIP</li></ol></li>
				<li>For advanced natural-language queries using domain-specific words, you may need to use what?<ol><li>The built-in, general-purpose linguistic model</li><li>A custom linguistic model</li><li>A custom theme</li><li>A custom data model</li></ol></li>
				<li>When enabling column quality in Power Query Editor, what values are shown for each column?<ol><li>Number of valid, duplicate, and empty</li><li>Percent of valid, duplicate, and empty</li><li>Percent of valid, error, and empty</li><li>Number of valid, error, and empty</li></ol></li>
				<li>What feature of Power BI reports allows you to capture the current state of a report page?<ol><li>Snapshot</li><li>Favorites</li><li>Bookmarks</li><li>Freeze page</li></ol></li>
				<li>What does being "data-driven" mean?<ol><li>Using autonomous automobiles</li><li>Business process improvement</li><li>Using data to make business decisions</li><li>Using the latest technology</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is Power BI?<ol><li>Software you download</li><li>Software and a service</li><li>Only a service</li><li>Only a mobile app</li></ol></li>
				<li>DAX functions must return how many values?<ol><li>Two</li><li>One or more</li><li>One</li><li>Minimum of one</li></ol></li>
				<li>When you create a report that allows end users to jump to a target page in your report that focuses on a selected data value, what feature are you using?<ol><li>Drillthrough</li><li>Bookmarks</li><li>Hyperlinks</li><li>Favorites</li></ol></li>
				<li>What configuration should be changed to use a measure in a drillthrough?<ol><li>Cross-filter direction set to both.</li><li>Cross-filter direction set from starting page to target page.</li><li>Allow drillthrough when summarized.</li><li>Allow drillthrough when used as a category.</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are the three layout options for the bookmark navigator?<ol><li>Grid, upright, and level</li><li>Grid, vertical, and level</li><li>Grid, upright, and horizontal</li><li>Grid, vertical, and horizontal</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which transformation replaces empty or null values in a column with the value from the adjacent row, defined as either up or down methods?<ol><li>Fill</li><li>Replace</li><li>Generate</li><li>Create data</li></ol></li>
				<li>The formula engine interacts with data stored where?<ol><li>It doesn't interact with data.</li><li>The storage engine and directly with data sources.</li><li>Directly with data sources.</li><li>The storage engine.</li></ol></li>
				<li>Slicers can be used to remove data from a report visual:<ol><li>Permanently from Power BI</li><li>Temporarily until the next refresh</li><li>Only while selected in the slicer</li><li>Permanently from the source</li></ol></li>
				<li>What does the "BI" in Power BI stand for?<ol><li>Business intelligence</li><li>Better intelligence</li><li>Business interactive</li><li>Business information</li></ol></li>
				<li>XMLA is the protocol used by:<ol><li>Extensible Markup Analytics</li><li>Microsoft Analytics Cloud</li><li>Power BI Analytics Services</li><li>Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services</li></ol></li>
				<li>What Azure service is used for <strong class="bold">Bring Your Own Key</strong> (<strong class="bold">BYOK</strong>) encryption in Power BI?<ol><li>Azure Power BI Embedded</li><li>Azure Private Link</li><li>Azure ExpressRoute</li><li>Azure Key Vault</li></ol></li>
				<li>When a calculated column is added to a query with 100 rows, how many values are added to the storage of the query?<ol><li>0</li><li>100</li><li>50</li><li>25</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-280"><a id="_idTextAnchor291"></a>Practice Test 2</h1>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">Why is it important to know about null and error rows in your data?<ol><li>Error rows always mean you need to reimport the data.</li><li>Because null value rows make Power BI slower.</li><li>So the rows can be fixed or removed.</li><li>Because business value is always in the rows with null values.</li></ol></li>
				<li>Dashboards can be viewed from what kind of devices and software?<ol><li>Power BI Desktop</li><li>Only mobile devices</li><li>Desktop web browsers and mobile devices</li><li>Only desktop web browsers</li></ol></li>
				<li>What feature allows you to use natural language to ask questions of a Power BI data model?<ol><li>Q&amp;A</li><li>Natural language processing</li><li>Cortana</li><li>Advanced questions</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which type of relationship is it recommended not to use?<ol><li>One-to-many</li><li>Many-to-some</li><li>One-to-one</li><li>Many-to-many</li></ol></li>
				<li>What does Power BI Desktop run on?<ol><li>Windows and macOS operating systems</li><li>Only Windows-based operating systems</li><li>Windows, macOS, and Android operating systems</li><li>Windows, macOS, and Linux</li></ol></li>
				<li>Custom visuals can be imported from a central service called what?<ol><li>Microsoft Store</li><li>Office Store</li><li>AppSource</li><li>Power Platform Store</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is mobile layout used to configure?<ol><li>Mobile device management</li><li>The layout of the dashboard for mobile devices</li><li>The deployment of Power BI for mobile devices</li><li>Which reports are viewable on mobile devices</li></ol></li>
				<li>What sort of information does the column profile in the Power Query Editor show?<ol><li>Count, min, max, and confidence interval</li><li>Count, error, empty, min, max, average, and standard deviation</li><li>Count, min, max, range, and standard deviation</li><li>Min, max, average, empty, and variance</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is the default kind of slicer shown for a date column?<ol><li>Sharp slicer</li><li>Checkbox slicer</li><li>Range slicer</li><li>Month slicer</li></ol></li>
				<li>For holistic data protection capabilities, sensitivity labels in Power BI integrate with what service?<ol><li>Cloud Information Analytics Services</li><li>Microsoft Information Protection</li><li>Microsoft Protect</li><li>Power BI Data Protection Service</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which DAX function evaluates an expression in a modified filter context?<ol><li>CALCULATE</li><li>SUM</li><li>COMPUTE</li><li>FILTERCALC</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which bin type options does Power BI support?<ol><li>Length of bins and number of bins</li><li>Width of bins and number of bins</li><li>Size of bins and number of bins</li><li>Size of bins and count of bins</li></ol></li>
				<li>The concept of defining the smallest level of data used in our report is described as what?<ol><li>Rice</li><li>Grain</li><li>Detail level</li><li>Magnification</li></ol></li>
				<li>What feature allows you to confirm whether row-level security has been set up correctly for another user?<ol><li>Impersonate user</li><li>View as</li><li>Performance Analyzer</li><li>Security analyzer</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are the three Play Axis visual animation settings?<ol><li>Auto start, loop, and time</li><li>Cycle mode, playback speed, and default animation</li><li>Play/pause, stop, and next</li><li>Cycle mode, loop, and time</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI dashboards are created using what tool?<ol><li>Power BI Desktop</li><li>Power BI service</li><li>Power BI Embedded</li><li>SQL Server Reporting Services</li></ol></li>
				<li>What information does column distribution in the Power Query Editor show?<ol><li>Value distribution bar chart and number of distinct and unique values</li><li>Value distribution bar chart and number of distinct and duplicate values</li><li>Value distribution line chart and number of distinct and unique values</li><li>Value distribution line chart and number of distinct and duplicate values</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI content is distributed using what?<ol><li>A collection</li><li>A solution</li><li>A Power BI app</li><li>A Power app</li></ol></li>
				<li>Dashboards use data from where?<ol><li>Datasets in the same workspace</li><li>Imported from many kinds of sources</li><li>Datasets in any workspace</li><li>Microsoft Excel</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which pane of the Power Query Editor window shows transformation steps that have been applied?<ol><li>Queries pane</li><li>Transformation Steps under the Query Settings pane</li><li>Applied Steps under the Query Settings pane</li><li>Steps pane</li></ol></li>
				<li>To better understand the factors that contribute to an important metric in your data, what feature should you consider using?<ol><li>Scorecard visual</li><li>Card visual</li><li>Smart narrative visual</li><li>Key influencers visual</li></ol></li>
				<li>Built-in roles for Power BI workspaces include which of the following?<ol><li>Admin, Associate, Contributor, and Viewer</li><li>Admin, Member, Contributor, and Viewer</li><li>Admin, Associate, Supplier, and Viewer</li><li>Admin, Member, Contributor, and Observer</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which two types of queries does Power BI have?<ol><li>Direct and import</li><li>Direct and indirect</li><li>Direct and load</li><li>Direct and internal</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which DAX function do you use to calculate the arithmetic mean?<ol><li>AVEDEV</li><li>MEAN</li><li>AVERAGE</li><li>AVG</li></ol></li>
				<li>In which scenario does it make sense to use row-level security?<ol><li>When single-user data is stored in a Power BI data model</li><li>When multi-user data is stored together but it's OK that each user sees all rows in the table or query</li><li>When multi-user data is stored in separate tables or queries</li><li>When multi-user data is stored together but you need to ensure each user only has access to their own data</li></ol></li>
				<li>To share only Power BI data connections (not reports), you should create what kind of file?<ol><li>PBIX</li><li>PBID</li><li>PBIDS</li><li>PBIS</li></ol></li>
				<li>To change how slicers interact with visuals on the report page, what configuration needs to be used?<ol><li>Edit interactions</li><li>Change slicer interactions</li><li>Change filter interactions</li><li>Edit slicer</li></ol></li>
				<li>To bring data together from multiple queries where the structure of the queries is the same, what do you use?<ol><li>A left outer join query</li><li>A right outer join query</li><li>An append query</li><li>A merge query</li></ol></li>
				<li>To best understand the representative behavior of data, what feature would you add to a bar chart to show you whether the data was trending positive or negative?<ol><li>Trend line</li><li>Behavior circle</li><li>Line of duty</li><li>Best fit square</li></ol></li>
				<li>Valid data types in the Power Query Editor include, but are not limited to, which of the following?<ol><li>Number, Text, Date/Time, and True/False</li><li>Whole Number, Decimal Number, Text, and Date/Time</li><li>Variable Character, Decimal Number, and Text</li><li>Date/Time, Percentage, and String</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which data warehousing schema organizes your data into fact and dimension tables?<ol><li>Sun schema</li><li>Star schema</li><li>Moon schema</li><li>Kimball schema</li></ol></li>
				<li>Viewing the data lineage for resources in a workspace is possible under which menu?<ol><li>File</li><li>Edit</li><li>View</li><li>Data</li></ol></li>
				<li>To connect to local data sources, which software do you need to use?<ol><li>You can't connect to local data sources.</li><li>Self-hosted integration runtime.</li><li>On-premises data gateway.</li><li>Power BI Report Builder.</li></ol></li>
				<li>When are measures calculated?<ol><li>When added to the data model</li><li>In context including with filters</li><li>In context including without filters</li><li>When the calculator is opened</li></ol></li>
				<li>Slicers can have different behavior for visuals on the report page. Those interactions can be which of the following?<ol><li>Highlight or filter</li><li>Highlight, filter, or none</li><li>Filter or none</li><li>Highlight or none</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which visual represents data as nested boxes?<ol><li>Filled map</li><li>Treemap</li><li>Pie</li><li>Matrix</li></ol></li>
				<li>Buttons, text boxes, shapes, images, and smart narratives are added to report pages under which ribbon tab?<ol><li>Home</li><li>Insert</li><li>Modeling</li><li>Information</li></ol></li>
				<li>Where can you find the Play Axis visual to use in Power BI reports?<ol><li>Microsoft Download Center</li><li>Microsoft AppSource</li><li>Built into Power BI</li><li>Power BI extension downloads</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which option best describes quick measures in Power BI?<ol><li>Pre-built calculations that can be applied without DAX</li><li>Measures that increase the performance of your data model</li><li>The fastest way to measure something in Power BI</li><li>Advanced measures that require using DAX</li></ol></li>
				<li>Dashboards display data stored where?<ol><li>Dashboard cache</li><li>Formula engine</li><li>Underlying data source</li><li>OneDrive</li></ol></li>
				<li>What needs to be set up and configured for on-premises data sources to be used in reports or dashboards published to the Power BI service?<ol><li>On-premises data gateway</li><li>Self-hosted integration runtime</li><li>Power BI Report Builder</li><li>DAX Studio</li></ol></li>
				<li>The performance of dashboards can be investigated using what tool?<ol><li>Dashboard speed gauge</li><li>Dashboard inspector</li><li>Performance Analyzer</li><li>Performance inspector</li></ol></li>
				<li>To see differences highlighted between deployment pipeline stages, what feature should be used?<ol><li>Evaluate</li><li>Contrast</li><li>Match</li><li>Compare</li></ol></li>
				<li>To visually identify outliers, which kind of visual would you use?<ol><li>Pie chart</li><li>Scatter plot</li><li>Card</li><li>Treemap</li></ol></li>
				<li>What feature allows you to customize page navigation within a report?<ol><li>Navigation config</li><li>Page navigator</li><li>Page config</li><li>Page format</li></ol></li>
				<li>The steps to optimize visuals on a report include, but are not limited to, which of the following?<ol><li>Limiting visuals to only those necessary</li><li>Applying the most restrictive filtering </li><li>Reducing the use of third-party visuals</li><li>All of the above</li></ol></li>
				<li>To use sensitivity labels in Power BI, where must this be enabled?<ol><li>Azure portal</li><li>Office 365 admin portal</li><li>Power BI admin portal</li><li>Options for Power BI Desktop</li></ol></li>
				<li>What setting do you use to change the background of a report page?<ol><li>Page settings</li><li>Format background</li><li>Canvas background</li><li>Background color</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which is an example of a business rule that can be used for a measure?<ol><li>Revenue needs to increase each month.</li><li>Revenue needs to increase or stay the same each month.</li><li>Revenue needs to increase by 5% each month.</li><li>We need to sell more products each month.</li></ol></li>
				<li>Value encoding compression can be used to reduce the size of what data type?<ol><li>Text</li><li>Numeric</li><li>True/false</li><li>Binary</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which Power BI capability allows users to apply filters dynamically to visuals on a report?<ol><li>Dynamic filters</li><li>Filter all</li><li>Dicers</li><li>Slicers</li></ol></li>
				<li>Which feature allows you to combine different data values together in a visual?<ol><li>Clubbing</li><li>Combining</li><li>Grouping</li><li>Linking</li></ol></li>
				<li>What is the limit to the number of times Power BI Premium capacity can refresh data?<ol><li>24 times per day</li><li>48 times per day</li><li>72 times per day</li><li>96 times per day</li></ol></li>
				<li>Power BI content can be pushed to end users. What does this setting apply to?<ol><li>Every Power BI user or your entire organization, with options except for specific security groups</li><li>The entire organization or specific security groups</li><li>The entire organization or specific users, with options except for specific security groups</li><li>The entire organization or specific security groups, with options except for specific security groups</li></ol></li>
				<li>What are the multiple licensing options for Power BI?<ol><li>Free, Pro, Premium Per Capacity, Premium per User, and Embedded</li><li>Free, Pro, Superior Per Capacity, Superior Per User, and Embedded</li><li>Free, Expert, Premium Per Capacity, Premium Per User, and Embedded</li><li>Free, Pro, Premium Per Capacity, Premium Per User, and For Business</li></ol></li>
				<li>What do you need to use to avoid a single point of failure with a connection to on-premises data sources?<ol><li>A Kubernetes cluster.</li><li>A cluster of on-premises data gateways.</li><li>High-availability Azure services.</li><li>Pay your monthly Power BI Pro bill.</li></ol></li>
				<li>To modify relationships between tables, which tool do you use?<ol><li>Manage relationships</li><li>Edit relationships</li><li>Create relationships</li><li>Modify relationships</li></ol></li>
				<li>What tool can be used to record the time taken by each visual to query and render in a report?<ol><li>Performance Analyzer</li><li>Performance optimizer</li><li>Query optimizer</li><li>Speed analyzer</li></ol></li>
				<li>When reports and datasets are published, credentials to data sources are stored where?<ol><li>Saved offline.</li><li>In the Power BI service.</li><li>They are not stored and must be manually entered after publishing.</li><li>In the dataset when published.</li></ol></li>
				<li>What does standard mode in an on-premises data gateway run as?<ol><li>A user-mode application</li><li>A service</li><li>A file configuration</li><li>A principle application</li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-281"><a id="_idTextAnchor292"></a>Answer keys</h1>
			<p>This section contains the answer keys for both the practice tests.</p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-282"><a id="_idTextAnchor293"></a>Practice Test 1</h2>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">C – Focus mode is when a visual is shown over the entire canvas.</li>
				<li>C – Trend lines in visuals change when data changes.</li>
				<li>C – Categorical analysis is required in this example.</li>
				<li>C – Power BI is a popular BI tool with both enterprise and citizen developers.</li>
				<li>B – Sort ascending will sort from lowest to highest.</li>
				<li>B – The RANKX function requires table, expression, and order parameters.</li>
				<li>D – Responsive slicers must contain a selection list of values.</li>
				<li>B – Supported cardinalities are many-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, and one-to-one.</li>
				<li>C – Table visual is the most similar to a database table.</li>
				<li>B – Drillthrough is set up on the target page.</li>
				<li>C – Row-level security requires a DAX expression.</li>
				<li>C – Development pipelines support development, test, and production stages.</li>
				<li>D – Using Power BI will be familiar for users of Microsoft Excel.</li>
				<li>D – A merge query is used to bring data together where the structure is different.</li>
				<li>B – Map, filled map, and ArcGIS map are the three types of map visuals.</li>
				<li>D – The data type selector under the Transform tab is needed to change the data type of a column.</li>
				<li>B – Aggregation is the only way to reduce data size from the choices provided.</li>
				<li>D – Data types of matching columns should be the same when you need to merge queries.</li>
				<li>D – Binning is the technique you would use to group customers together to understand buying habits.</li>
				<li>C – Formula and storage engines are the two engines used by Power BI.</li>
				<li>C – The auto date/time option will create a hidden date hierarchy table.</li>
				<li>B – Visuals from reports use pinning to be added to a dashboard.</li>
				<li>D – DAX stands for Data Analysis eXpressions.</li>
				<li>C – Column profile under the View tab will show descriptive statistics about each column.</li>
				<li>D – The Power Query Editor uses the first 1,000 rows by default.</li>
				<li>B – Power BI content is published to a workspace.</li>
				<li>B – Column from Example, Custom Column, and Index Column are the only valid ways to add columns from the options listed.</li>
				<li>C – AI methods supported in Power Query Editor are language detection, key phrase extraction, sentiment analysis, and image tagging.</li>
				<li>C – Scheduled refresh works with 15-minute time windows.</li>
				<li>D – Power BI can connect to all of the listed data sources.</li>
				<li>A – Power BI is designed to work with many data sources.</li>
				<li>A – Percent increase is an example of a non-additive measure.</li>
				<li>B – Indexes on the source data, dimension to fact table key integrity, materializing data and dates, and distributed tables for MPP databases are often direct query performance optimization techniques.</li>
				<li>C – Usage metric reports include report usage, report performance, and report list information.</li>
				<li>C – Enterprise mode needs to be used in the on-premises data gateway for multiple users to be able to use the gateway.</li>
				<li>C – You need to format your visual in order to change the color.</li>
				<li>C – Of the tools listed, DAX Studio is the recommended tool for optimizing measures.</li>
				<li>D – Power BI supports both built-in and custom visuals.</li>
				<li>D – It is often hard for businesses to see a complete picture of what is happening across the enterprise.</li>
				<li>C – Downstream inheritance is when the same sensitivity labels are applied to downstream data products.</li>
				<li>B – The filtering pane can filter by visual, page, or all pages.</li>
				<li>D – Data refresh is the capability used to update data in a Power BI dataset.</li>
				<li>D – The default canvas for a report is 16:9.</li>
				<li>B – To compress data, Power BI can use value and hash encoding.</li>
				<li>B – A custom linguistic model makes it possible to use domain-specific words in natural-language queries.</li>
				<li>C – Column quality shows percent of valid, error, and empty values.</li>
				<li>C – Bookmarks allow you to capture the current state of a report page.</li>
				<li>C – Being data-driven means using data to make business decisions.</li>
				<li>B – Power BI is software and a service. </li>
				<li>C – DAX functions must return one value.</li>
				<li>A – Drillthrough is when users can jump to a target page in your report that focuses on a selected data value.</li>
				<li>C – Allow drillthrough when summarized is the configuration that should be changed.</li>
				<li>D – Bookmark navigator can use the grid, vertical, and horizontal options.</li>
				<li>A – Fill transformation replaces empty or null values in a column with values from the adjacent row using the up or down method.</li>
				<li>D – The formula engine interacts with data stored in the storage engine.</li>
				<li>C – Slicers will only remove data when the slicer is being used or selected.</li>
				<li>A – The "BI" stands for business intelligence. </li>
				<li>D – XMLA protocol is used by Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services.</li>
				<li>D – Azure Key Vault is the Azure service used for bringing and storing encryption keys.</li>
				<li>B – There will be 100 values stored in the query when using a calculated column on a query of 100 rows.</li>
			</ol>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-283"><a id="_idTextAnchor294"></a>Practice Test 2</h2>
			<ol>
				<li value="1">C – Null or error rows will need to be fixed or removed from a table.</li>
				<li>C – Desktop web browsers and mobile devices can view dashboards.</li>
				<li>A – The Q&amp;A feature allows you to use natural language to ask questions of a Power BI data model.</li>
				<li>D – It is recommended not to use many-to-many.</li>
				<li>B – Power BI Desktop only runs on Windows-based operating systems.</li>
				<li>C – Custom visuals can be imported from AppSource.</li>
				<li>B – The layout of the dashboard for mobile devices can be configured with the mobile layout capability.</li>
				<li>B – Count, error, empty, min, max, average, and standard deviation are shown in the column profile.</li>
				<li>C – Range slicer is the default used for date columns.</li>
				<li>B – Power BI integrates with Microsoft Information Protection for holistic data protection capabilities.</li>
				<li>A – The CALCULATE function evaluates an expression in a modified filter context.</li>
				<li>C – The Power BI options for bin types include the size and number of bins.</li>
				<li>B – Grain, or granularity, is the concept of defining the smallest level of data used in a report.</li>
				<li>B – View as is the feature that allows you to confirm whether row-level security and been set up correctly for another user.</li>
				<li>A – Animation settings for the Play Axis visual include auto start, loop, and time.</li>
				<li>B – Power BI dashboards are created on the Power BI service.</li>
				<li>A – A value distribution bar chart and the number of distinct and unique values are shown in column distribution in the Power Query Editor.</li>
				<li>C – Content is distributed using a Power BI app.</li>
				<li>A – Dashboards can use data from datasets in the same workspace.</li>
				<li>C – Transformation steps are shown in Applied Steps under the Query Settings pane.</li>
				<li>D – The key influencers visual allows you to understand the factors that contribute to important metrics in your data.</li>
				<li>B – Admin, Member, Contributor, and Viewer are the built-in roles for Power BI workspaces.</li>
				<li>A – Direct and Import are the two types of Power BI queries.</li>
				<li>C – The AVERAGE function is used to calculate the arithmetic mean.</li>
				<li>D – Row-level security can be used when multi-user data is stored together but you need to ensure each user only has access to their own data.</li>
				<li>C – A PBIDS file stores the data connections from Power BI.</li>
				<li>A – Edit interactions is used to change how slicers interact with visuals on the report page.</li>
				<li>C – An append query is used to bring data together where the structure of the queries is the same.</li>
				<li>A – A trend line can be used to better understand the behavior of data trends.</li>
				<li>B – Data types in the Power Query Editor include Whole Number, Decimal Number, Text, and Date/Time.</li>
				<li>B – Star schema organizes data into fact and dimension tables.</li>
				<li>C – You can view data lineage for resources in a workspace under the View menu.</li>
				<li>C – The on-premises data gateway software allows you to connect to local data sources.</li>
				<li>B – Measures are calculated in the context, including with filters.</li>
				<li>B – Slicers can highlight, filter, or have no similar behavior to other visuals on the report page.</li>
				<li>B – The treemap visual represents data in nested boxes.</li>
				<li>B – Buttons, text boxes, shapes, images, and smart narratives are under the  Insert tab.</li>
				<li>B – The Play Axis visual can be found in Microsoft AppSource.</li>
				<li>A – Quick measures are best described as pre-built calculations that can be applied without writing DAX.</li>
				<li>A – Dashboards display data stored in the dashboard cache.</li>
				<li>A – The on-premises data gateway needs to be set up so on-premises data sources can be used.</li>
				<li>D – Performance inspector is the tool to use when investigating the performance of dashboards.</li>
				<li>D – Compare should be used to see differences between deployment pipeline stages.</li>
				<li>B – Of the visuals mentioned, the scatter plot would be best suited to identify outliers.</li>
				<li>B – Page navigator is the feature that allows you to customize page navigation within a report.</li>
				<li>D – All of the options presented will help optimize visuals on a report page.</li>
				<li>C – Sensitivity labels can be enabled in the Power BI admin portal.</li>
				<li>C – The report page background setting is set under the canvas background setting.</li>
				<li>C – Of the options presented, only revenue needs to increase by 5% each month is an example of a business rule that can be used with a measure.</li>
				<li>B – Value encoding compression can be used to reduce the size of numeric data.</li>
				<li>D – Slicers allow users to apply filters dynamically.</li>
				<li>C – Grouping is the feature that allows you to combine different data values together.</li>
				<li>B – Power BI Premium capacity can refresh data 48 times per day.</li>
				<li>D – The pushing data to users setting applies to the entire organization or specific security groups, with options except for specific security groups.</li>
				<li>A – Power BI can be free, Pro, Premium Per Capacity, Premium Per User, or Embedded.</li>
				<li>B – To avoid a single point of failure with an on-premises data gateway, you need to configure a cluster.</li>
				<li>A – The manage relationships capability is used to modify relationships between tables.</li>
				<li>A – Performance Analyzer is the tool used for visuals to query and render in a report.</li>
				<li>C – Data source credentials are not saved or stored at publish time but must be entered after publishing.</li>
				<li>B – On-premises data gateway Standard mode runs as a service.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>