<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Guide</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style-JRserifv5.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div id="_idContainer000">
			<h1 class="hidden">Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Guide</h1>
			<p class="hidden">A comprehensive guide to becoming a confident and certified Power BI professional</p>
			<p class="hidden">Orrin Edenfield</p>
			<p class="hidden">Edward Corcoran</p>
			<p>BIRMINGHAM—MUMBAI</p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-1"><a id="_idTextAnchor000"></a>Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certification Guide</h1>
			<p>Copyright © 2022 Packt Publishing</p>
			<p><em class="italic">All rights reserved</em>. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embedded in critical articles or reviews.</p>
			<p>Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure the accuracy of the information presented. However, the information contained in this book is sold without warranty, either express or implied. Neither the authors, nor Packt Publishing or its dealers and distributors, will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged to have been caused directly or indirectly by this book.</p>
			<p>Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information about all of the companies and products mentioned in this book by the appropriate use of capitals. However, Packt Publishing cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information.</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Publishing Product Manager</strong>: Heramb Bhavsar</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Senior Editor</strong>: David Sugarman</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Content Development Editor</strong>: Joseph Sunil</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Technical Editor</strong>: Devanshi Ayare</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Copy Editor</strong>: Safis Editing</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Project Coordinator</strong>: Aparna Ravikumar Nair</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Proofreader</strong>: Safis Editing</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Indexer</strong>: Pratik Shirodkar</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Production Designer</strong>: Sinhayna Bais</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Marketing Coordinator</strong>: Priyanka Mhatre</p>
			<p>First published: June 2022</p>
			<p>Production reference: 4120822</p>
			<p>Published by Packt Publishing Ltd.</p>
			<p>Livery Place</p>
			<p>35 Livery Street</p>
			<p>Birmingham</p>
			<p>B3 2PB, UK.</p>
			<p>ISBN 978-1-80323-856-2</p>
			<p><a href="http://www.packt.com">www.packt.com</a></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-2"><a id="_idTextAnchor001"></a>Contributors</h1>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-3"><a id="_idTextAnchor002"></a>About the authors</h1>
			<p><strong class="bold">Orrin Edenfield</strong> has 20 years of experience in designing and implementing data and analytics solutions. Orrin contributes to Microsoft certification exams as well as architecture best practices and blueprints, helping to solve BI problems using Power BI and more. As a cloud solution architect, Orrin helps customers solve technical obstacles and helps develop Azure platforms.</p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Edward Corcoran</strong> has spent 20 years working in data warehousing and business intelligence. As a cloud solution architect, Ed helps customers use Microsoft data and analytics services to solve technical obstacles and helps develop customer implementation projects to ensure easy adoption. Ed also collaborates with product engineering to aid with the development of Microsoft products and Azure platforms.</p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-4"><a id="_idTextAnchor003"></a>About the reviewers</h1>
			<p><strong class="bold">Udit Kumar Chatterjee</strong> is an experienced data analytics and data science professional with a demonstrated history of working in statistical data analysis, insights mining, and business analytics. He has worked across various sectors, including manufacturing, market research, retail, and accounting, and with reputed and big-4 firms. He is an MCT (Microsoft Certified Trainer) and a 13-times Microsoft Certified Professional, including holding the PL-300 certification and the MCSE (Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert) certification. He likes to empower and educate people in the field of data by actively contributing to various community platforms and LinkedIn. </p>
			<p><em class="italic">I wish to thank my beloved parents for inspiring and encouraging me to achieve more on both the personal and professional fronts.</em></p>
			<p><strong class="bold">Joseph Gnanaprakasam</strong> is a data architect, husband, and father living in Virginia. He has over a decade of experience in building data engineering and business intelligence solutions. Recently, he has started sharing his musings on data at joegnan.com. He is an avid photographer and enjoys traveling.</p>
		</div>
		<div>
			<div id="_idContainer001" class="Content">
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>