<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous: Command Line, Text Editor, and Git Version Control Essentials</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780137843268.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<p class="copy-title" id="copy"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_vi"></span>Cover image: Philipp Tur/Shutterstock</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch01.xhtml#fig1-1">Figures 1.1</a>, <a href="ch01.xhtml#fig1-2">1.2</a>, <a href="ch01.xhtml#fig1-4">1.4</a>, <a href="ch01.xhtml#fig1-6">1.6</a>-<a href="ch01.xhtml#fig1-8">1.8</a>, <a href="ch05.xhtml#fig5-4">5.4</a>, <a href="ch05.xhtml#fig5-6">5.6</a>-<a href="ch05.xhtml#fig5-9">5.9</a>, <a href="ch05.xhtml#fig5-11">5.11</a>, <a href="ch10.xhtml#fig10-9">10.9</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-8">11.8</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-10">11.10</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-13">11.13</a>, <a href="appa.xhtml#figapp-1">A.1</a>: Screenshot © 1995-2021 The Open Group</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch01.xhtml#fig1-3">Figure 1.3</a>: Screenshot © 2021 The Linux Foundation</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch03.xhtml#fig3-3">Figures 3.3</a>, <a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-31">7.31</a>, <a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-32">7.32</a>: Screenshot © Regex101</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch05.xhtml#fig5-1">Figures 5.1</a>, <a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-1">6.1</a>-<a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-3">6.3</a>, <a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-10">6.10</a>-<a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-22">6.22</a>, <a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-24">6.24</a>-<a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-36">6.36</a>, <a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-1">7.1</a>-<a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-30">7.30</a>, <a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-33">7.33</a>, <a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-34">7.34</a>, <a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-39">7.39</a>, <a href="ch08.xhtml#fig8-3">8.3</a>-<a href="ch08.xhtml#fig8-8">8.8</a>, <a href="ch09.xhtml#fig9-1">9.1</a>-<a href="ch09.xhtml#fig9-12">9.12</a>, <a href="ch10.xhtml#fig10-3">10.3</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-3">11.3</a>-<a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-7">11.7</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-15">11.15</a>-<a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-17">11.17</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-22">11.22</a>-<a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-24">11.24</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-26">11.26</a>: Screenshot © 2021 GitHub, Inc.</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-4">Figures 6.4</a>-<a href="ch06.xhtml#fig6-9">6.9</a>, <a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-35">7.35</a>, <a href="appa.xhtml#figapp-2">A.2</a>-<a href="appa.xhtml#figapp-7">A.7</a>: Screenshot © 2021, Amazon Web Services, Inc.</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-36">Figures 7.36</a>-<a href="ch07.xhtml#fig7-38">7.38</a>: Screenshot © 2020 Wbond</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch08.xhtml#fig8-2">Figure 8.2</a>: Screenshot © 2021 Apple Inc.</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch10.xhtml#fig10-2">Figures 10.2</a>, <a href="ch10.xhtml#fig10-6">10.6</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-25">11.25</a>: Photo of whale, GUDKOV ANDREY/Shutterstock</p>
<p class="copy"><a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-12">Figures 11.12</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-14">11.14</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-19">11.19</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-21">11.21</a>, <a href="ch11.xhtml#fig11-27">11.27</a>: Photo of polar bear, Vaclav Sebek/Shutterstock</p>
<p class="copyt">Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book, and the publisher was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed with initial capital letters or in all capitals.</p>
<p class="copyt">The author and publisher have taken care in the preparation of this book, but make no expressed or implied warranty of any kind and assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. No liability is assumed for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the use of the information or programs contained herein.</p>
<p class="copyt">For information about buying this title in bulk quantities, or for special sales opportunities (which may include electronic versions; custom cover designs; and content particular to your business, training goals, marketing focus, or branding interests), please contact our corporate sales department at <a href="mailto:corpsales@pearsoned.com">corpsales@pearsoned.com</a> or (800) 382-3419.</p>
<p class="copyt">For government sales inquiries, please contact <a href="mailto:governmentsales@pearsoned.com">governmentsales@pearsoned.com</a>.</p>
<p class="copyt">For questions about sales outside the U.S., please contact <a href="mailto:intlcs@pearson.com">intlcs@pearson.com</a>.</p>
<p class="copyt">Visit us on the Web: <a href="http://informit.com/aw">informit.com/aw</a></p>
<p class="copyt">Library of Congress Control Number: 2022930143</p>
<p class="copyt">Copyright © 2022 Softcover Inc.</p>
<p class="copyt">All rights reserved. This publication is protected by copyright, and permission must be obtained from the publisher prior to any prohibited reproduction, storage in a retrieval system, or transmission in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or likewise. For information regarding permissions, request forms and the appropriate contacts within the Pearson Education Global Rights &amp; Permissions Department, please visit <a href="http://www.pearson.com/permissions">www.pearson.com/permissions</a>.</p>
<p class="copyt">ISBN-13: 978-0-13-784345-9</p>
<p class="copya">ISBN-10: 0-13-784345-3</p>
<p class="copyt"><code>ScoutAutomatedPrintCode</code></p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>