<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
lang="en"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous: Command Line, Text Editor, and Git Version Control Essentials</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780137843268.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2f" id="pref02"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xiii"></span>Preface</h2>
<p class="noindent"><em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em> is designed to teach you three essential tools for modern software development: the Unix command line, a text editor, and version control with Git. All three are ubiquitous in the contemporary technology landscape, and yet there are surprisingly few resources for learning them from scratch and seeing how they all fit together. <em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em>, which assumes no prerequisites other than general computer knowledge, was created to fill this gap.</p>
<p class="indent">The skills you’ll learn in this book are valuable whether your interest is in collaborating with developers or becoming a developer yourself. No matter what you want to do—level up in your current job, start a new career, or even start your own company—<em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em> is a great place to start.</p>
<p class="indent">The individual subjects covered by this book are potentially enormous; entire books can (and have been) written about each of them. But such giant tomes can be overwhelming, especially for beginners, and they generally involve covering many things you don’t actually need right away. Instead, this book focuses on the most important aspects of the respective technologies, grounded in the philosophy that you don’t have to learn everything to get started—you just have to learn enough to be <em>dangerous</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">In addition to teaching you specific skills, <em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em> also helps you develop <em>technical sophistication</em>—the seemingly magical <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xiv"></span>ability to solve practically any technical problem. Technical sophistication includes concrete skills like command lines, text editors, and version control, as well as fuzzier skills like Googling the error message and knowing when to just reboot the darn thing. Throughout this book, there are abundant opportunities to develop technical sophistication in the context of real-world examples.</p>
<p class="indent">Finally, although the individual parts of the book are as self-contained as possible, they are also extensively cross-referenced to show how the different tools fit together. You’ll learn how to use the command line to launch a text editor, make your changes in the editor, and then return to the command line to record the changes with Git. The result is an integrated introduction to the foundations of software development that’s practically impossible to find anywhere else.</p>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref01lev1sec1">Command Line</h3>
<p class="noindent"><a href="part01.xhtml#part01">Part I</a> of <em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em>, also known as <em>Learn Enough Command Line to Be Dangerous</em>, is an introduction to the Unix command line for complete beginners. It doesn’t even assume you know what a “command line” is (though you’ll still probably learn a thing or two even if you do). In particular, unlike most command-line tutorials, it doesn’t assume you know how to use a text editor (which is the subject of <a href="part02.xhtml#part02">Part II</a>). All of this means you need only basic computer skills (like being able to install new software on your system) to get started.</p>
<p class="indent">Like all Learn Enough tutorials, <em>Learn Enough Command Line to Be Dangerous</em> is structured as a technical narrative, with each step carefully motivated by real-world uses. <a href="ch01.xhtml#ch01">Chapter 1</a> covers the basic notion of a Unix command and shows you how to use your system to learn more about itself. <a href="ch02.xhtml#ch02">Chapter 2</a> shows how to use the command line to do things like move, rename, and delete files. <a href="ch03.xhtml#ch03">Chapter 3</a> shows how to look inside files (even really big ones), and even how to search through them. Finally, <a href="ch04.xhtml#ch04">Chapter 4</a> teaches you how to use the command line to create and navigate directories (folders) to organize files on your system.</p>
<p class="indent">The result of finishing <em>Learn Enough Command Line to Be Dangerous</em> is a mastery of the basics of a tool that is rarely covered explicitly and yet is everywhere in modern computing. This is especially true of computing in the <em>Unix tradition</em>, which includes operating systems like Linux, Android, macOS, and iOS (basically everything but Microsoft Windows, though nowadays even Windows lets you run Linux). This means you’ll have a big head start if you’re interested in things like web or mobile app development.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xv"></span>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref01lev1sec2">Text Editor</h3>
<p class="noindent"><a href="part02.xhtml#part02">Part II</a>, also known as <em>Learn Enough Text Editor to Be Dangerous</em>, covers a category of application—known as a text editor—that many people don’t even know exists, and yet is absolutely essential for professional-grade software development. Text editors are used to make files containing <em>plain text</em>, which is the document format used for virtually all Web technologies (like HTML and CSS) and programming languages (JavaScript, Ruby, Python, etc.). As such, knowledge of a text editor is a necessary prerequisite for learning those other important subjects.</p>
<p class="indent">Because there is such a wide variety of text editors and user preferences, <em>Learn Enough Text Editor to Be Dangerous</em> focuses on the main features shared by virtually all editors. <a href="ch05.xhtml#ch05">Chapter 5</a> starts by introducing the powerful Vim text editor, which is available on practically every Unix system in the known universe. <a href="ch06.xhtml#ch06">Chapter 6</a> then introduces so-called “modern” text editors, mainly using the free and open-source Atom editor but focusing on features shared with other editors like Sublime Text and Visual Studio Code. As a bonus, this chapter includes an integrated introduction to the popular Markdown formatting language. <a href="ch07.xhtml#ch07">Chapter 7</a> then covers more advanced subjects like tab triggers and editing source code, and also shows how to write a <em>shell script</em> to extend the capabilities of the command line covered in <a href="part01.xhtml#part01">Part I</a>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref01lev1sec3">Git</h3>
<p class="noindent"><a href="part03.xhtml#part03">Part III</a>, also known as <em>Learn Enough Git to Be Dangerous</em>, covers version control with Git. In line with the approach of the other two parts, <em>Learn Enough Git to Be Dangerous</em> doesn’t even assume you know what “version control” is (though any familiarity with the subject will still be helpful). As a software system designed to let you track changes in projects, version control might have been considered optional as recently as the early 2000s, but for modern software development it is absolutely essential, and Git has emerged as the clear winner.</p>
<p class="indent"><em>Learn Enough Git to Be Dangerous</em> shows how to use Git by tracking changes in a real-world project consisting of a small website (thereby giving you get a head start on web development as well). <a href="ch08.xhtml#ch08">Chapter 8</a> shows how to set up a new Git <em>repository</em> as a container for your project, beginning with a file consisting of some simple HTML (the markup language of the World Wide Web). <a href="ch09.xhtml#ch09">Chapter 9</a> explains how to create a remote backup for your project at GitHub, a popular site for sharing code. <a href="ch10.xhtml#ch10">Chapter 10</a> then shows how to use Git to make and record changes to your project, including important techniques known as <em>branching</em> and <em>merging</em>. Finally, <a href="ch11.xhtml#ch11">Chapter 11</a> shows how to use Git to collaborate with other users, including learning how to resolve the kinds <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xvi"></span>of inevitable file conflicts that arise. As a special bonus, you’ll learn how to use a free service called GitHub Pages to deploy your site to the live Web.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref01lev1sec4">Additional Features</h3>
<p class="noindent">In addition to the main tutorial material, <em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em> includes a large number of exercises to help you test your understanding and to extend the material in the main text. The exercises include frequent hints and often include the expected answers, with community solutions available by separate subscription at <a href="http://www.learnenough.com">www.learnenough.com</a>.</p>
<p class="indent">For completeness, <em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em> includes an appendix on setting up a development environment, including instructions for native systems (macOS, Linux, Windows) and a preconfigured cloud IDE (integrated development environment). This material is also available for free online at <a href="http://www.learnenough.com/dev-environment">www.learnenough.com/dev-environment</a>, which can be consulted for the most up-to-date instructions.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref01lev1sec5">Final Thoughts</h3>
<p class="noindent"><em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em> is designed as a foundational text for modern software development. After learning the developer tools covered in this tutorial, and especially after beginning to develop your technical sophistication, you’ll be ready for a huge variety of other resources, including books, blog posts, and online documentation. You’ll also have the prerequisites needed for the other Learn Enough tutorials: <em>Learn Enough HTML</em>, <em>CSS and Layout to Be Dangerous</em>, <em>Learn Enough JavaScript to Be Dangerous</em>, and <em>Learn Enough Ruby to Be Dangerous</em>. You can even go on to learn professional-grade web development with the <em>Ruby on Rails</em>™ <em>Tutorial</em>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="pref01lev1sec6">Learn Enough Scholarships</h3>
<p class="noindent">Learn Enough is committed to making a technical education available to as wide a variety of people as possible. As part of this commitment, in 2016 we created the Learn Enough Scholarship program (<a href="https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship">https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship</a>). Scholarship recipients get free or deeply discounted access to the Learn Enough All Access subscription, which includes all of the Learn Enough online book content, embedded videos, exercises, and community exercise answers.</p>
<p class="indent">As noted in a 2019 RailsConf Lightning Talk (<a href="https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship-talk">https://www.learnenough.com/scholarship-talk</a>), the Learn Enough Scholarship application process is incredibly simple: just fill out a confidential text area telling us a little about your situation. The scholarship <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xvii"></span>criteria are generous and flexible—we understand that there are an enormous number of reasons for wanting a scholarship, from being a student, to being between jobs, to living in a country with an unfavorable exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Chances are that, if you feel like you’ve got a good reason, we’ll think so, too.</p>
<p class="indent">So far, Learn Enough has awarded more than 2,500 scholarships to aspiring developers around the country and around the world. To apply, visit the Learn Enough Scholarship page at <a href="http://www.learnenough.com/scholarship">www.learnenough.com/scholarship</a>. Maybe the next scholarship recipient could be you!</p>
<div class="box1">
<p class="noindent">Register your copy of <em>Learn Enough Developer Tools to Be Dangerous</em> on the InformIT site for convenient access to updates and/or corrections as they become available. To start the registration process, go to <a href="http://informit.com/register">informit.com/register</a> and log in or create an account. Enter the product ISBN (9780137843459) and click Submit. Look on the Registered Products tab for an Access Bonus Content link next to this product, and follow that link to access any available bonus materials. If you would like to be notified of exclusive offers on new editions and updates, please check the box to receive email from us.</p>
</div>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xviii"></span>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>