<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0" epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0                z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">

<head>
  <title>htmlcss_epub-27</title>
  <link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006605679" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body id="htmlcss_epub-27" lang="en-US">

  <div>

    <h2 class="Chapter--" id="idParaDest-164"><a id="idTextAnchor465"/>Appendix II </h2>

    <p class="Chapter-Sub-title"><a id="idTextAnchor466"/>FTP</p>

    <p class="IntroParagraph"><span class="glossaryterm idGenCharOverride-1">FTP</span>, or file transfer protocol, is a method of sending and receiving files from remote servers. Once you understand the general workflow of FTP, it will seem much like copying files on your computer. However, understanding FTP involves defining a few terms and wading through an alphabet soup of acronyms so you’ll recognize related terms. </p>

    <p class="H2_Body">It is important to note that FTP is an internet protocol (just like HTTP or HTTPS) and thus is not defined or controlled by a particular program. Various FTP programs exist, but they all provide a way for you to send and receive files to and from another computer.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">Almost every web hosting company provides FTP access (see appendix I for details on web hosting). Nowadays, FTP is increasingly referred to by its more secure variant, SFTP, which stands for secure file transfer protocol. It encrypts the connection with SSL so that authentication information and file contents are kept from prying eyes and would-be attackers.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">Sometimes SFTP is also called SCP, but this is a misnomer. SCP stands for Secure Copy, a protocol built upon SSH (Secure Shell), which is a method allowing users to access the command line of a server via a secure, encrypted tunnel. SCP lets the user transfer files in much the same way as with SFTP, so web hosting companies and software programs often reference SCP and SFTP in similar scenarios.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">Now that the terms are out of the way, we’ll need to discuss software. Almost every modern operating system includes a command-line client named <code class="CODE">ftp</code>, but using it for anything but the most basic tasks is tedious at best. FTP uses commands like GET (retrieving files), PUT (sending files), and LIST (listing files), and, though typing is possible, you’ll want an FTP program to present file listings and download/upload commands in an easy-to-use interface.</p>

    <h3 class="H2" id="idParaDest-165"><a id="idTextAnchor467"/>Common FTP Software Titles</h3>

    <p class="H2_Body">As of this publication, some popular FTP clients include the following:</p>

    <ul class="marked1">

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">FileZilla (Windows, macOS, and Linux)</p>

      </li>

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">WinSCP (Windows)</p>

      </li>

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">Transmit (macOS)</p>

      </li>

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">ExpanDrive (Windows, macOS, and Linux)</p>

      </li>

    </ul>

    <p class="H2_Body">FileZilla, WinSCP, and Transmit present, by default, a two-pane explorer. Files on the left-hand side are local to your computer, and files on the right-hand side are on the server. Dragging and dropping files from the local pane to the remote pane initiates a file transfer. In both windows, you can click on icons to navigate to folders, create new files and folders, and edit and delete data.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">Programs like ExpanDrive represent the remote FTP server as a drive letter, allowing you to navigate, copy, edit, and delete files and folders as though they were on your local system. This can be very useful, but keep in mind that working directly on the server offers no easy backup route. For this reason, web designers may wish to either keep a local copy of their files or use a software package that features both local and remote panes to display files on their computer and files on the remote server.</p>

    <h3 class="H2" id="idParaDest-166"><a id="idTextAnchor468"/>Connecting to an FTP Server</h3>

    <p class="H2_Body">All FTP clients will prompt you for information required to connect you to a remote FTP server. Necessary details include the following:</p>

    <ul class="marked1">

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">Server hostname or IP address</p>

      </li>

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">Username</p>

      </li>

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">Password</p>

      </li>

      <li>

        <p class="marked-list-item">Remote path for files</p>

      </li>

    </ul>

    <p class="H2_Body">Your web hosting company will provide the server hostname for FTP. This is sometimes named ftp.YourWebsite.com, but it may also be the name of the server. Or they may provide an IP address. Either will work. Unless you created a username and password in your web hosting control panel, your provider assigns these details.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">The remote path isn’t required, but knowing where your files are going will save you a lot of time digging through your web hosting account. On cPanel-based shared hosting servers, the remote directory is <code class="CODE">public_html</code>. On Plesk, it’s <code class="CODE">httpdocs</code>. Dedicated or virtual private Linux servers may use <code class="CODE">/var/www/html</code>. If in doubt, check with your provider.</p>

    <h3 class="H2" id="idParaDest-167"><a id="idTextAnchor469"/>Some Final Notes on FTP</h3>

    <p class="H2_Body">FTP provides an excellent way to back up an existing website. Simply connect to your FTP server and download all your files. Many FTP clients provide a “Download All” or “Synchronize” function to allow you to download everything from the remote server in one click.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">FTP can be incompatible with Git, and using FTP to place files will likely break your Git workflow. If you’re using Git to push your website files to your web server, you will only want to use FTP to back up your site, not to upload files.</p>

  </div>

</body>

</html>