<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0" epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0                z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">

<head>
  <title>htmlcss_epub-24</title>
  <link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006605679" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body id="htmlcss_epub-24" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">

  <div>

    <h2 class="Chapter--" id="idParaDest-161"><a id="idTextAnchor459"/>Conclusion</h2>

    <p class="IntroParagraph">Throughout this book, you’ve been introduced to HTML, CSS, and several related technologies, and you’ve used your growing body of knowledge to edit the ClydeBank Coffee Shop website. You’ve learned how to stage your work, create an effective workflow, and collaborate with teams using source code management systems like Git. You’ve learned the languages (HTML and CSS) that define the underlying technology for nearly all the display systems in use today. You now hold a tremendous advantage—one you can leverage in your personal and professional life.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">So the answer to the question “What’s next?” largely depends on you. Will you take this information and build a website for a personal hobby? For your company? For your child’s sports team? Perhaps you’ll launch the web’s next successful startup.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body">Learning never stops. This is especially true with HTML and CSS. Web design is truly an art that takes a few hours to learn and a lifetime to master, and part of that mastery is keeping up with changes and advancements in the field.</p>

    <p class="H2_Body idGenParaOverride-1">Congratulations on your achievement. We cannot wait to see what is next for you!</p>

  </div>

</body>

</html>