<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0" epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0                z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US"><head>
  <title>htmlcss_epub-1</title>
  <link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006605679" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body id="htmlcss_epub-1" lang="en-US">

  <div id="toc_1">

    <p class="copyright" id="idParaDest-131">Copyright © 2020 by ClydeBank Media LLC</p>

    <p class="copyright">All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other noncommercial uses permitted by copyright law. For permission requests, write to the publisher, addressed “Attention: Permissions Coordinator,” at the address below.</p>

    <p class="copyright">ClydeBank Media LLC is not associated with any organization, product or service discussed in this book. Although the author and publisher have made every effort to ensure that the information in this book was correct at press time, the author and publisher do not assume and hereby disclaim any liability to any party for any loss, damage, or disruption caused by errors or omissions, whether such errors or omissions result from negligence, accident, or any other cause.</p>

    <p class="copyright">All trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade dress, product names and logos appearing in this publication are the property of their respective owners, including in some instances ClydeBank Media LLC. Any rights not expressly granted herein are reserved.
</p>

    <p class="copyright">Editors: Bryan Basamanowicz, Marilyn Burkley<br/>Cover Illustration and Design: Katie Poorman, Copyright © 2020 by ClydeBank Media LLC<br/>Interior Design: Katie Poorman, Copyright © 2020 by ClydeBank Media LLC</p>

    <p class="copyright">First Edition – Last updated: January 16, 2021</p>

    <p class="copyright">ISBN-13: 9781636100005 (paperback) | 9781636100012 (hardcover) | 9781636100029 (eBook) | 9781636100036 (audiobook)</p>

    <p class="copyright">Library of Congress Control Number: 2020952160</p>

    <p class="copyright">Author ISNI: 0000 0004 9330 7502</p>

    <p class="copyright">Publisher’s Cataloging-In-Publication Data <br/>(Prepared by The Donohue Group, Inc.) 
Names: DuRocher, David, author. <br/>Title: HTML and CSS QuickStart Guide : the simplified beginners guide to developing a strong coding foundation, building responsive websites, and mastering the fundamentals of modern web design / David DuRocher. <br/>Other Titles: HTML and CSS Quick Start Guide <br/>Description: [Albany, New York] : ClydeBank Technology, [2021] | Series: QuickStart Guide | Includes bibliographical references and index. 
Identifiers: ISBN 9781636100005 (paperback) | ISBN 9781636100012 (hardcover) | ISBN 9781636100234 (spiral bound) | ISBN 9781636100029 (ePub) <br/>Subjects: LCSH: HTML (Document markup language)--Handbooks, manuals, etc. | Web site development--Handbooks, manuals, etc. <br/>Classification: LCC QA76.76.H94 D87 2021 (print) | LCC QA76.76.H94 (ebook) | DDC 005.72--dc23</p>

    <p class="copyright">Ordering Information: Please visit <a href="http://www.clydebankmedia.com/orders">www.clydebankmedia.com/orders</a> or call 888-386-2624. Special discounts are available on quantity purchases by corporations, associations, and others.</p> </div>
    </body></html>