<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0" epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0                z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">

<head>
  <title>htmlcss_epub-33</title>
  <link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006605679" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body id="htmlcss_epub-33" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">

  <div>

    <h2 class="Chapter--"><a id="idTextAnchor515"/></h2>

    <p class="Chapter-Title" id="idParaDest-189">Glossary</p>

    <p class="TermName">Attribute</p>

    <p class="Definition">An additional option for an HTML element that modifies its behavior or appearance.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Breakpoint</p>

    <p class="Definition">The point at which CSS rules respond to the width of a device, “breaking” content from (usually) a horizontal to a vertical layout.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Code Editor</p>

    <p class="Definition">A text editor with specific features oriented toward developers. Code editing software typically includes syntax highlighting, automatic indentation, and multiple-file management. </p>

    <p class="TermName">Content Delivery Network (CDN)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A service that hosts CSS, JavaScript, images, and sometimes HTML code on a network of geographically dispersed servers for increased speed and reliability. Using a CDN frees the web server from having to serve all web page assets and leaves more processing power for serving HTML and dynamic pages.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Content Management System (CMS)</p>

    <p class="Definition">Software that allows web designers and content creators to easily add, edit, and organize a website with little to no knowledge of HTML, CSS, or related technologies. WordPress, Joomla, and Drupal are examples.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Cross-Site Scripting</p>

    <p class="Definition">The act of including or injecting code (usually JavaScript) from another page. </p>

    <p class="TermName">CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A coding system used to apply visual styles to HTML elements. </p>

    <p class="TermName">Deploying</p>

    <p class="Definition">The process of uploading website files to a web server.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Development Website (or Development Server)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A website used to develop new content or features. Development sites are generally not open to the public.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Element</p>

    <p class="Definition">A part of HTML code that instructs the browser to display content or adjust the functionality of a web page. Elements usually contain a start and end tag and can contain other elements.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Framework</p>

    <p class="Definition">In web design, a collection of CSS and JavaScript libraries that provide structure and utility to a website. Bootstrap is an example of a web design framework.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Hamburger Menu</p>

    <p class="Definition">A three-line vertically stacked icon that typically opens a menu for website navigation on a mobile device.</p>

    <p class="TermName">FTP (File Transfer Protocol)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A network protocol that facilitates file uploads and downloads to and from another computer. When referenced in the field of web design, FTP refers to the technology used to upload website HTML, CSS, and related files to a web server. FTP software uses this protocol to perform this transfer.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Full Stack Web Developer</p>

    <p class="Definition">A web designer who also codes JavaScript and works with backend languages like PHP and Python.</p>

    <p class="TermName">HTML (HyperText Markup Language)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A markup language that defines the appearance, behavior, and content of a web page.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Landscape Mode</p>

    <p class="Definition">A display orientation used with devices that are wider than they are tall. This mode is often used for movies, videos, and wide-screen photos.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Link (or Hyperlink)</p>

    <p class="Definition">An HTML element that, when clicked, takes the user to another URL.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Markup Language</p>

    <p class="Definition">A defined set of codes, symbols, and idioms that apply style or behavior to content.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Open-Source</p>

    <p class="Definition">Software that has its complete source code available for anyone to browse, use, alter, and distribute.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Portrait Mode</p>

    <p class="Definition">A display orientation used with devices that are taller than they are wide.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Production Website (or Live Website/Server)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A website that is currently online and available for public use, in contrast with development and staging websites.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Rendering Engine</p>

    <p class="Definition">The portion of a web browser that converts HTML and CSS code into a usable web page.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Responsive Design</p>

    <p class="Definition">A type of web design using media queries and related methods to adjust to various screen sizes and devices. </p>

    <p class="TermName">Shared Web Hosting</p>

    <p class="Definition">The process of hosting multiple websites from a single server. Shared web hosting dramatically lowers the cost of website hosting but can be limiting for sites with a lot of traffic.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Social Graph</p>

    <p class="Definition">A web-like network detailing links and connections between people, places, businesses, groups, and other organizations.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Source Code Management (SCM)</p>

    <p class="Definition">Software and systems that enable web designers and developers to manage updates and versions of source code. SCM systems usually facilitate collaboration between developers.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Staging Website (or Staging Server)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A website generally not open to the public that allows the web designer(s) to test out new code without breaking the production website. Once approved and tested, staging content is deployed to production.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Tag</p>

    <p class="Definition">A piece of HTML code that signifies the start or end of an HTML element. The term is sometimes used to describe an entire HTML element, especially if the element has no end tag.</p>

    <p class="TermName">URL (Universal Resource Locator)</p>

    <p class="Definition">An address of a website or other resource. May also be referred to as “uniform resource locator.”</p>

    <p class="TermName">Web Designer (or Web Developer)</p>

    <p class="Definition">A person who writes HTML and CSS code for web pages. Some web designers also fulfill the role of graphic designer by creating or modifying photos or illustrations.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Web Browser</p>

    <p class="Definition">Software that allows a user to browse and interact with web pages.</p>

    <p class="TermName">Web Server</p>

    <p class="Definition">A computer that serves HTML web pages, CSS files, and other content to users via the internet.</p>

  </div>

</body>

</html>