<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0" epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0                z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">

<head>
  <title>htmlcss_epub-34</title>
  <link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006605679" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body id="htmlcss_epub-34" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">

  <div>

    <p class="Chapter-Title" id="idParaDest-190"><a id="idTextAnchor516"/>References</p>

    <p class="References">DirtyMarkup. n.d. <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">10BestDesign</span>. Accessed February 24, 2020. <a href="https://www.10bestdesign.com/dirtymarkup/">https://www.10bestdesign.com/dirtymarkup/</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">HTML: Living Standard. n.d. Accessed February 21, 2020. <a href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org">https://html.spec.whatwg.org</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Interactive Accessibility. n.d. <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">Accessibility Statistics</span>. Accessed February 14, 2020. <a href="https://www.interactiveaccessibility.com/accessibility-statistics">https://www.interactiveaccessibility.com/accessibility-statistics</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Lemelson-MIT. n.d. “Linus Torvalds: Linux Operating System, Computing and Telecommunications.” Accessed December 10, 2020. <a href="https://lemelson.mit.edu/resources/linus-torvalds">https://lemelson.mit.edu/resources/linus-torvalds</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Lippay, Laura. 2016. “What You Should Know About Accessibility + SEO, Part I: An Intro.” <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">Moz</span>. March 30. <a href="https://moz.com/blog/accessibility-seo-1">https://moz.com/blog/accessibility-seo-1</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Otto, Mark. 2012. “Bootstrap in A List Apart No. 342.” <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">Markdotto.com</span>. January 17. <a href="http://markdotto.com/2012/01/17/bootstrap-in-a-list-apart-342/">http://markdotto.com/2012/01/17/bootstrap-in-a-list-apart-342/</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Software Freedom Conservancy. n.d. <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">A Short History of Git</span>. Accessed June 10, 2020. <a href="https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git">https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">United States Census Bureau. 2012. “Nearly 1 in 5 People Have a Disability in the U.S.” News Release No. CB12-134. July 25. <a href="https://www.census.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/miscellaneous/cb12-134.html">https://www.census.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/miscellaneous/cb12-134.html</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">W3C. n.d. <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">Facts about W3C</span>. Accessed February 21, 2020. <a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/facts">https://www.w3.org/Consortium/facts</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">W3Techs. 2020. <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">W3Techs</span>. Accessed February 14, 2020. <a href="https://w3techs.com/technologies/details/cm-wordpress/all/all">https://w3techs.com/technologies/details/cm-wordpress/all/all</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Wayner, Peter. 2011. “13 features that make each Web browser unique.”<span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2"> InfoWorld</span>. May 2. <a href="https://www.infoworld.com/article/2624020/13-features-that-make-each-web-browser-unique.html">https://www.infoworld.com/article/2624020/13-features-that-make-each-web-browser-unique.html</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Weber, Jason. 2016. “Get More Out of Your Battery with Microsoft Edge.” <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">Windows Experience Blog</span>, Microsoft. June 20. <a href="https://blogs.windows.com/windowsexperience/2016/06/20/more-battery-with-edge/">https://blogs.windows.com/windowsexperience/2016/06/20/more-battery-with-edge/</a>.</p>

    <p class="References">Wikipedia. 2020. <span class="italic idGenCharOverride-2">Programming Languages Used in Most Popular Websites</span>. January 14. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_languages_used_in_most_popular_websites">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_languages_used_in_most_popular_websites</a>.</p>

  </div>

</body>

</html>