<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Copyright Page, Problem Solving 101</title>
		<link href="../css/wata_9781101029183_oeb_css_r1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:bf5aaa8c-8b6b-4342-a1d1-6dcaae038d4e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="copyright-page">
		<p><a id="cop"/></p>
		<div class="crt">
			<b>PORTFOLIO</b>
		</div>
		<div class="crt">Published by the Penguin Group</div>
		<div class="crt">Penguin Group (USA) Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, U.S.A. • Penguin Group (Canada), 90 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4P 2Y3 (a division of Pearson Penguin Canada Inc.) • Penguin Books Ltd, 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England • Penguin Ireland, 25 St. Stephen’s Green, Dublin 2, Ireland (a division of Penguin Books Ltd) • Penguin Books Australia Ltd, 250 Camberwell Road, Camberwell, Victoria 3124, Australia (a division of Pearson Australia Group Pty Ltd) • Penguin Books India Pvt Ltd, 11 Community Centre, Panchsheel Park, New Delhi - 110 017, India • Penguin Group (NZ), 67 Apollo Drive, Rosedale, North Shore 0632, New Zealand (a division of Pearson New Zealand Ltd) • Penguin Books (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, 24 Sturdee Avenue, Rosebank, Johannesburg 2196, South Africa</div>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt">
			Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: <br/>80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England
		</div>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt">
			First published in 2009 by Portfolio, <br/>a member of Penguin Group (USA) Inc.
		</div>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt"/>
		<div class="crt">
			<div>
				 <br/></div>
			Copyright © Kensuke Watanabe, 2007, 2009
		</div>
		<div class="crt">All rights reserved</div>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt">Originally published in Japanese by Diamond Inc., Osaka.</div>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt">Illustrations by Allan Sanders</div>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt">LIBRARY OF CONGRESS CATALOGING IN PUBLICATION DATA</div>
		<div class="crt">Watanabe, Ken.</div>
		<div class="crt">Problem solving 101 : a simple book for smart people / Ken Watanabe. p. cm.</div>
		<div class="crt">eISBN : 978-1-101-02918-3</div>
		<div class="crt"/>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt">Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise), without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher of this book.</div>
		<div>
			 <br/></div>
		<div class="crt">The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book via the Internet or via any other means without the permission of the publisher is illegal and punishable by law. Please purchase only authorized electronic editions and do not participate in or encourage electronic piracy of copyrightable materials. Your support of the author’s rights is appreciated.</div>
		<p class="crt"><a href="http://us.penguingroup.com">http://us.penguingroup.com</a></p>
		<p id="versionNumber" style="font-size:0.6em; margin:1.5em; text-align:center;">Version_4</p>
	</body>
</html>